MARTIE Hey, Justin.

JUSTIN Hi, chef. How are ya?

MARTIE Hey, I'm good. How are you?

JUSTIN Living the dream? Talking to you, you know? What could be better?

MARTIE Oh I know. So where are you in the world today?

JUSTIN For once I am in my dining room in Rapid City, South Dakota. It's a gray day here, but any day at home is a good day for me.

MARTIE I know, that's right. You have been on the road burning it up a lot, lately. The new Guy Fieri show is pretty exciting. You want to start off with that?

JUSTIN Oh, yeah, sure. Tournament of Champions. I'm the kind of sideline reporter. I give the home viewer some insight into the action that you're seeing on the screen. That action is essentially head to head chef battles that are done and organized in a sort of NCAA bracket-style format.

To be the winner, you have to go through all the other chefs on either coast. It's a really intense show. There's a thing called The Randomizer, which is essentially five wheels of doom that have like an ingredient or a protein, a method of cooking that the chefs have to incorporate.

The judging is totally blind. So, you can't really cook to a judge's specific palette or culinary neuroses. You really just gotta be the best chef. So it's an interesting sort of no hold bars. There's no sort of gimmicks other than The Randomizer, and really the best food wins.

MARTIE I like The Randomizer because it puts everybody on an equal playing field. You know? I watched the first episode and I don't want to be a spoiler here, but I thought that that played a big role in the outcome of the first episode that I saw. We would have nailed that thing. If we had gotten the waffle maker. Man, we would have crushed it.

JUSTIN Oh chef. You know us, man. Waffles? No problem. Pancakes, waffles, that's how I got my start.

MARTIE Yeah. Tell us a little bit about that, Justin. Like, how did you get your start in food? I know a little bit about it, but tell our listeners. How'd you get your start in food?

JUSTIN Well truly, I started as a dishwasher when I was like 14 or 15, something like that. Whatever the child labor laws in Maryland were at that time. I was like champing at the bit to get a job. I don't know why. I guess, chef, you know me. I have my vices. I like my toys. I like my games. I like my hobbies. So, I wanted to make money. And I intentionally failed at dishwashing because I couldn't stand it.

So, they moved me out onto the front of house as a busboy. From there I just kinda kept chasing more and more expensive restaurants because I kind of did the math that the more expensive the restaurant, the more money I would make via tips or tip out or the tip pool or whatever the system was. And eventually, like, I don't know, 10 or 12 years later, I found myself working in a Michelin starred restaurant in New York called The Modern.

And that was in—well it's still there in MoMA, in the Museum of Modern Art. So we had some real heavy hitters with clients there. We'd sell a $12,000 bottle of wine on a Tuesday lunch service. So you really had to be on your A game there. As a waiter, you had to know as much as a chef because you had to articulate and you had to represent. You had to be the ombudsman between the chef and their team and the guests and their unsatisfiable desires.

So, from there, my culinary knowledge was OK, but I had never really applied it in terms of cooking until I tried out for a show called 24 Hour Restaurant Battle with a girl I was seeing at the time. And somehow miraculously, we came up with a pancake, waffle, and French toast concept that ended up winning us that show.

The producers of that show then went on to cast for Food Network Star, and then kind of the rest is history. Next thing was you and me in that casting room with all the fake—they hired these fake people to look as though they were eager applicants, when in fact, there were only probably 15 or 20 of us in there. Just to make it look like a real ordeal. And then it was you and I just sitting there talking about socks.

MARTIE It was a great time because of you. Otherwise, I'm not sure I would have made it.

But so for those of you who don't know our history, we did Season Eight of Food Network Star, and we were representing team Alton. It was the year that they had teams. And we were sequestered a lot. So when you're sequestered a lot, you get to know a lot about somebody. So I know pretty much, I think, everything about Justin.

So digging up new things to talk about would be hard normally, but Justin's got so much going on. So chef, if you don't mind, I just want to kind of cut to some of the stuff like that you got going on right now. Outside of The Tournament of Champions, which like I said, I think that's gotta be one of the most fun concepts I've seen on Food Network in a while.

But our Allrecipes community, we're a community of home cooks. And to me, Homemade, the podcast, is just a natural fit for that audience. And the premise of a recipe is a story that ends with a good meal, that Pat Conroy quote. I want to know how in the world did you take what you know about cooking, translate it to this pressure cooker thing, and then take those old school and favorite family recipes, and then turn them into something new?

JUSTIN Oh, man, chef. Big question. I came across pressure cooking when I was researching how to cook octopus. There's a scene in the movie Jiro Dreams of Sushi where I believe they use the pressure cooker, and I was not familiar with it.

You know, generally, you don't see pressure cookers in restaurants. Restaurants are known for doing things as long as they want. They'll put something in the oven and let it braise overnight because they have the time to do it. They can set it up. That's part of mise en place, being prepared and having one's ingredients and items where they need to be.

But myself and I think a lot of home cooks don't have that time or organizational bandwidth. So the pressure cooker is a device that has been in use as a stove top sort of thing for the ages. Canning — you know, anytime anybody's used a pressure canner — that's the exact same technology. You're using a pressurized vessel to increase the boiling temperature of water. It's kind of like the opposite of when you're at a higher elevation, right? The air pressure is lower, therefore, the temperature of water, when it boils, is lower as well.

So, I was just curious about this thing. So I just bought one. And I didn't know that people were scared of them. I just bought a stovetop Fagor pressure cooker and followed the instructions. And holy moly, that octopus was tender in, like, 30 minutes. And I mean, it was like fall-apart tender.

I was amazed by what this thing could do. And then, you know, and then I started to really, like, learn about other applications for it. You know, you can have short ribs done and, like, fork-tender in 40 minutes. At that point, who needs sous vide? Doing sous vide for 36-hour short ribs. I mean, it's a great thing to put on a menu. But for the home cook, it's not very exciting.

I was immediately attracted to the idea of what could a home cook unlock with this. Then entered the electric pressure cooker, or electronic pressure cooker, that took the internet by storm, the Instant Pot. Everyone was convinced this is the newest invention. But I love pressure cooking. And I think that it's something that home cooks, especially home cooks who want to follow a recipe but maybe don't have the hours to babysit a tough protein or to monitor a pot of beans or are nervous about cooking rice — the electronic pressure cooker or any standard pressure cooker can really unlock some time-saving recipes. And I think the coolest thing about pressure cooking is that now that America has kind of rediscovered it, it's really ignited a passion for recipe creation in communities. If you look in their Facebook groups and, you know, certainly there are tons and tons on Allrecipes.com.

It's people that have submitted things that have worked for them and have been delicious, and now you're seeing recipes get kind of a virality. And I think it's a virality that you haven't really seen since in a smaller setting. You know, the old school church cookbooks, where, you know, Peggy's recipe is absolutely slamming. "Hey, have you tried Peggy's recipe? Oh my gosh. Peggy's recipe is the bomb." And then, you know, OK, you would submit it to a place like Allrecipes.com.

MARTIE That's exactly right. That's what's happening. They're giving their tried and true. It's getting word-of-mouth buzz. They told two friends and so on and so on.

JUSTIN I've only been a chef or a cook or a, you know, a celebrity for less than a decade now. Whereas, there are people who have been cooking for their families for years and years and generations and generations.

So, who's to say that chefs or people on TV should be the creators? I think that like computer development and good software development, open source is the way it makes things that are the best. And I think recipes and Allrecipes.com and that sort of thing is the way forward in food.

MARTIE Can we talk about some of your tricks of the trade, though? Some of the things that you can help us learn to make it more flavorful? Like, I know sometimes people complain about the texture. I know you've got some tricks for getting it, getting your food super crispy and even browned, things like that. Can we run through some of your top tips?

JUSTIN Yeah, absolutely. So, I'll tell you the first thing that I think a lot of home cooks don't do, is use enough oil, butter, fat, whatever your lipid of choice is. I think we don't use enough of those as home cooks. I think people are nervous about the idea of like, you know, fat is bad.

MARTIE Right.

JUSTIN But I'll use the words of the great Guy Fieri, "Fat is food lube." And I think people are scared of using great cookware, i.e. cast iron, stainless steel, because they're afraid of sticking. But here's the thing. If it's sticking ruins your meal, then you have no food. So I'll take an extra tablespoon of fat, divided amongst the six people that I'm serving the food for to provide that lubrication to make sure that the meal gets on and that I have stress free cooking. And the next thing is salt. That's another thing people are terrified of, for some reason. Salt, you know, is a miracle. It's the only rock we readily eat.

Of course, anything is edible if you try hard enough, but salt is a mineral that we actively consume, and it's a miracle. I think of salt as being like the corrective lenses for your tongue or the readers for flavor. I rarely in my life have food that is too salty. And I think that's because I have a good salt palette.

That being said, I don't know of any ingredient that I don't like, and that's because I think I've experienced a lot of ingredients cooked at a great level with the right amount of fat and the right amount of salt. So those are the first two tips.

Step it up slowly. Surely you'll realize that, wow, you can really push the limits of richness and saltiness as a home cook and people will love you for it.

MARTIE When you judge a lot of these shows, even with top chefs, people who compete at the highest level every day in the restaurants or on food television, isn't that something that sends a lot of people home, is lack of seasoning? Lack of use of salt and of fat?

JUSTIN Absolutely. And chef, I can't tell you how many times, and I think it's just people getting nervous and they forget about these core concepts. And really, fat and salt are, are the backbones of making delicious food. It really is. So I can't stress it enough. And truly, we send more cooks home on Grocery Games due to lack of salt or some sort of technical thing involving fat. It's a shame but that's what happens.

MARTIE How do we get the browning? How do we get that reaction? I know what you're going to say, but I want our listeners to hear.

JUSTIN Yeah, so browning is something that I think a lot of people are hesitant about. Especially when it comes to an electronic pressure cooker. See, not all of them are created equally.

I work with Ninja, full disclosure, to create the Foodie. If you notice the Foodie compared to other pressure cookers, it's actually wider. It takes up more footprint in your kitchen, which is generally considered to be a no-no in the world of appliances. People want minimal footprint, but the bottom line is, you need space to sear, to create that browning. And you need a powerful heat source in the bottom of it.

So I told Ninja, "Look, I'm not gonna be on board with this thing if it doesn't have a wider surface area. If I can't fit four burger patties or if I can't fit the average portioning of stew meat without browning, we've got a problem." Lo and behold, they did it. So that thing, one. Whether you're using a pressure cooker or not, crowding things in a pan is generally the way to steamy, textureless food.

I like wide stainless steel pans. I have one for searing singles from a cast iron. In restaurants though, we use a Rondo. And a Rondo is like two and a half feet wide sometimes, and it's designed for the multi-user, over multiple burners, and that's the way we get browning in a restaurant. So you just got to apply those same tips to your home kitchen.

The next thing, of course, is a convection cooking. A lot of people have all these questions about air fryers. You know, they're super viral. I don't like thinking about them as being air fryers. I like to think about them as what they are. And that's a miniature turbo convection oven. Dry heat, circulating heat, is always going to be the way to browning. And so, if you like things super crispy, the air fryer, or as I like to call it, the turbo convection oven, is definitely a great investment.

MARTIE And how do we get that extra golden brown deliciousness? When we used that you showed the Foodie together you showed me, but I want you to tell our audience.

JUSTIN So my hack is to use an aerosolized food lube of some sort. So you can use a spritzer. You can use a mister. But me, I just smack that stuff with nonstick spray or toss it with oil. Anything really, if you want that golden crispiness. You need to make sure that you have an even dispersion of some sort of cooking oil. Mister, toss it in a bowl, any of those things. You've just gotta make sure it comes back to, once again, using enough fat. That's the bottom line.

MARTIE  I think that that's a great nugget to take away. Don't be afraid of the fat, and don't be afraid of the salt. And I think you're right. I think that's two components that people will shy away from. So you can do it in stages, though. You don't have to put it all in at once. If you notice on the food shows, there's always a stack of spoons there. Right, chef? And you're tasting, tasting, tasting, constantly. So you can adjust the flavor because it does change with the addition of new ingredients.

JUSTIN Oh, absolutely. And not only that, it changes during the cooking process. So, you know, something to think about, especially on the idea of salt is that, as you cook it, essentially what you're doing is taking the water out of whatever it is that you are cooking.

Generally, if you're going for brownness, you've taken it out to the point that you're actually toasting whatever the protein or vegetable or what have you is. So as water goes away, flavor intensifies and with it, often, salinity.

Sometimes I think people don't realize that certain ingredients they may be using actually already contain salt. And so when you add those in the cooking process, you have to be cautious that they don't reduce to the point of becoming too salty.

It rarely ever, ever happens. But, you know, look at ingredients and find your salt sources because there are a lot of alternative salts out there that I think are a great benefit to increasing flavor. Worcestershire, soy, miso, pickle juice, all of these things have salt, and they're great ways of adding oomph and adding exciting new flavor. So it doesn't just have to be our favorite edible rock. You can find salt in so many other sources.

MARTIE Yeah, I love pickle juice. I save all my pickle juice. It's like a prized possession. And I use it in all kinds of things. Dressings and barbecue sauce, so yeah, like Justin said, guys, it's a great thought to think outside the shaker and look at new ways of incorporating salt into your cooking.

So Justin, that brings me to another question. You're really involved with Marvel comics, and I know you're a big comic book guy. I see you got a new cookbook coming out with them. How in the world did you translate cooking to comic books? I don't even know how you made that happen.

JUSTIN You know, chef, I don't know either. Maybe that's my superpower. Way back when I won Food Network Star, someone from Marvel knew someone at Food Network. And the person at Food Network is like, "I'm pretty sure they're a nerd. Do you want me to connect you? You could bring them onto a podcast." So I did a podcast with them, and I said, "Hey, like, off the record, if you ever want to make some Marvel food, let me know."

And so they were like, kind of curious about this idea. And then they gave me a couple little, like, tester recipes. Like at the end of one of the movies, all of the vendors go out for shawarma. And they were like, "Hey, can you make a vendor shawarma?" Yeah, I can make shawarma. No problem. Send them the recipe. It was for some reason it was a game day, a celebration, like Marvel's big game celebration.

So then I made the wings that were red and waffled after the Falcon, Sam Wilson, who in certain versions of the comics, is Captain America's sidekick but also becomes Captain America. So I wanted to make something that was cool and representative of his Harlem roots, right? So it was chicken and waffles all in one. And again, I use a waffle iron, coming back to The Tournament of Champions. I used a waffle iron to cook the wings. So they were like, "Wow, neat."

Then they called me in to make monsters. There are all these monsters in the Marvel universe, monster-inspired food. So I did this massive bone-in short rib for this creature called Devil Dinosaur. And I made it bright red and I served it with a fossilized tomato. It's not really fossilized, but it's a technique that causes vegetables to look as though they are rocks or that they've been petrified. So, you know, it was a shoo-in.

The hosts of the show that was doing it at the time could clearly guess who these monsters were. Then someone behind the camera actually got an idea to just turn it into a full-fledged show. We did like 60 episodes. You can check them out on YouTube. And people were like, you know, these recipes are legitimately good. It's not just Instagram fodder or YouTube wowee zowees. It's real food for real people and, consequently, for made-up people as well. Then we got this idea, like, let's put it into a cookbook. And that's just it.

I like cooking to solve a problem, and I think a lot of people don't realize they like that too. Generally, that problem is hunger or having a family. But there are a bunch of other problems that cooking can solve, and it's not just food-related but sometimes it's —

MARTIE Yeah, emotional. It's all kinds of things.

JUSTIN Right. To me, I see no difference in me solving the problem of what would Captain America eat that would also be entertaining to cook and cooking an apple pie for somebody who got a new home. These are both acts of creativity and of creation and of self-expression.

MARTIE We'll have more with Justin Warner right after the break.

MARTIE Welcome back to Homemade. I'm Martie Duncan, and today I'm talking to Chef Justin Warner.

I want to roll back to your food roots even further than restaurant. Let's go back to Maryland. You're from Maryland.

JUSTIN Oh, yeah.

MARTIE And I don't know if you remember this, but way back in the day you drew me a picture of a crab and I have it like in the little tiny frame in my kitchen.

And every time I look at it, I think of you. I know that crab and your Maryland roots are super important to you and you go back frequently and visit. Tell me like in the early days, when you're a kid with comic books, what were your food roots at home?

JUSTIN You know, my mom was pretty busy. Both of my parents worked. You know, I was in and out of daycare and whatnot at an early age. So my mom wasn't a huge fan of cooking as we think it. She loved those semi, sort-of-homemade things. You know, rice in a packet that you can't screw up.

And I definitely grew up eating my fair share of kid cuisines. But sooner or later my mom was like, "You know what? I'm going to really start planning things out." So she would plan menus, and she called leftovers "left-overtures." And she just really wanted to make things as fancy as possible and really have, like, a home organization plan.

We weren't gourmets growing up, but we definitely ate well. I think the number one thing that influenced me as a kid was that nobody ever told me what I liked or didn't like. And nobody ever told me I couldn't have something or try something new.

You know, my mom will tell ya, I was three years old and I saw a bowl of calamari that someone was eating at an Italian restaurant. And they didn't tell me, "No, you couldn't have that." I ate the whole bowl. And to me as a three year old, I think I was attracted to the weird texture and the shapes that were in the bowl, tentacles and rings. You know, no food looks like calamari.

MARTIE Well, you know, in the Allrecipes community, nineties food, that throwback to '90s food and the '90s food nostalgia is a big thing. That's why I wanted to kind of talk to you about your food roots.

JUSTIN Oh, man. The '90s, I think, is actually when smoothies really took off. So I was like a smoothie king at like the age of seven or eight. I just loved the idea of dumping stuff into a blender. And other than don't put your fingers in there, don't reach into the blender, it's actually a pretty safe tool for kids to use.

So I was a smoothie junkie. I absolutely loved, for some reason, making dips and like crudite plates as a kid. Nothing is like more nineties than, like, cherry tomato, celery, carrots. You know, those bunny bite carrots. I'm sure that's trademarked. Oh yeah, ranch dressing. You know, I grew up in the age of pizza ranch. Do you remember that?

MARTIE I don't remember that.

JUSTIN They made purple ketchup and green ketchup for a while. And then before that, the predecessor was they made pizza-, taco-, and I want to say hamburger-flavored ranch. Terrifying, right?

MARTIE That's awful. That sounds so terrible.

JUSTIN Chef, I would take that stuff to the head, man. That was like shot of whiskey for a five year old. It's like, do a shot of pizza ranch.

MARTIE I don't remember much about '90s food. So you're going to have to teach me. So there was actually pizza, I mean, and taco and ketchup?

JUSTIN Hamburger-flavored ranch.

MARTIE Oh my goodness. That's hysterical. So the no-bake cookie thing, was that like when you'd come home from school? That thing you'd just pull out, like just mash up things together?

JUSTIN No. You know, for me, chef, the first time I made a no-bake cookie was at my restaurant because I knew that it would click with my generation of people. Everybody had it in their lunches at school. And it was something that the lunch gals could just kind of throw together but still maintain a sense of homemade-ness.

You know? If they didn't have time to bake, you can portion those suckers out with a scoop. And you can make probably like 30 an hour, if not more. So, it really just depends on your portioning skills for that. I put it as kind of like the textural element in a soup. I know that sounds crazy.

MARTIE It sounds amazing. I do that sometimes too, like with goat cheese and toasted sesame seeds and things like that. And roll it into a little ball or scoop it and then put it in the soup, and it sorta just melts down in.

JUSTIN Dark chocolate has an ability to be savory very, very quickly. And the bitterness can provide a very unique foil in food. So I love dark chocolate in like a squash soup. I think it's a real game changer.

MARTIE So if I had to say, Justin, I want you to make one recipe that's gonna stand all the test of time and it's going to be the one thing that you're going to be remembered for, forever. And I know the foie gras donut is your — that's your pinnacle. I realize that. I mean, it's been written up and talked about at length. So you might want to start with that, but if there's like a home recipe that you would be remembered for and that you'd want to pass on to all of us to make it home, what would that one be?

JUSTIN The foie gras donut is definitely like gonna to be on my tombstone. And the recipe exists in one of my cookbooks, The Laws of Cooking and How to Break Them. But I don't really prescribe that recipe for home cooks. It's actually a little bit tricky and difficult. But I think one of my favorites is probably — and there's really not any recipe for it, but there's some technique involved that I could certainly teach — but it's the cook a duck breast. And I know you had ducks growing up, so this is probably terrifying to you. But a duck breast that is crispy-skinned and just medium-rare to medium, and then a little salad of arugula with lemon and olive oil, maybe a shave of pecorino cheese, a healthy serving of black pepper on that salad. And then maybe a nice glass of wine or any sort of fruit-based beverage that you like. It's just such a winning thing that really, to me, like if anybody made that for me, they would say, "Justin, I know you well and I love you."

MARTIE So I'm going to practice my duck cooking skills. Even though I did have ducks growing up and I have an aversion to cooking them for that reason. But the crispy skin is the thing, though. Rendering the fat. Can you talk us through a little bit of that technique?

JUSTIN Absolutely. So, first things first, if you want to make duck breast cooking easy, use an air fryer. There's something about that rapid convection heat that will get that skin crispy in absolutely no time. And because, generally, the heat is circulating all around the duck breast itself, it will cook perfectly and you'll get that medium, medium-rare and in no time.

But if you were going to do it the old-school way in, say, a cast iron pan, I would score the skin of the duck just so that the fat has more ability to render out. Right? It's not sealed in itself. You're actually doing what I call mechanical tenderization at that point. So score the duck breasts on skin.

You start skin side down on a slow pan. I like to think of duck breasts as being a chicken breast with bacon on one side. So you've got to get that bacon crispy first. Or the skin, rather, crispy first. Then you flip it over and then you put it in the oven until it comes to the temperature that you want.

I don't think that it's a crazy-hard thing to do. And I think that if you cook it slowly and gently, you will be met with success. But a lot of people get nervous about cooking duck. I think that you cook it one, two times, you're gonna know how to do it. It's pretty easy stuff, really.

MARTIE So score the skin. Start with a cooler pan. Do we put down some fat to start to sear, or?

JUSTIN This is one of those cases where you don't because the duck has so much fat in it. It's just like bacon. You don't add butter to the pan when you're cooking bacon. Maybe in the South, who knows.

MARTIE I was about to say, maybe some folks down here do.

JUSTIN But in general, I start bacon off in a cold pan and just let that fat render out and then it sort of confits or cooks itself in its own fat.

MARTIE And then finish it off in the oven until about what internal temperature do you think is the best for duck?

JUSTIN My lawyers would not like me saying this, but I think like 130 to 135.

MARTIE Although the USDA and the FDA and all those people might disagree, but I think that's what most restaurants would do. Right?

JUSTIN Yep.

MARTIE Pretty awesome, chef. All right. So let's talk a little bit about what you've got coming up down the road. I know you're super involved with the launch of the new cookbook for Marvel. What's that called? And when will that be out?

JUSTIN So that's called Marvel Eat the Universe, the cookbook. I think that comes out in summer. I've got some other tricks up my sleeve that I don't know that I'm at liberty to divulge when it comes to Marvel-related stuff. But let's just say, if you're a Marvel fan, stay tuned to my social media because it's going to be a very good summer for stuff involving myself and Marvel.

MARTIE Hey, so chef, where can we find your Marvel YouTube videos? Tell everybody about how they find those because we'd talked about them earlier, and I want to make sure people know where to go and look those up.

JUSTIN Yeah, just type in the search bar, Marvel Eat the Universe. You'll find your way there. It's pretty easy. We're the only ones.

MARTIE I'm going to start working on my costume now for my sidekick buddy role. I can't do the two bracelets. Shira's got that. Crown, probably not so much. Wonder Woman. Cape, probably. I'm going to have to work on it. Boots might be my thing — and a whip.

JUSTIN Oh my goodness, chef. Wow.

MARTIE Well I mean, from the horses and polo, I happened to have those.

JUSTIN Maybe that polo helmet, too. I like where this is going, chef.

MARTIE  All right. Well Justin Warner, Eat the Universe, the Foodie, Guy's Grocery Games, and of course the new field commentator on Tournament of Champions for Food Network, and my really good friend. I can't thank you enough for being part of Homemade, here on the Allrecipes.com podcast.

JUSTIN Chef, it's an honor. I love you.

MARTIE Love you back. Bye babe.