DANIEL: I'm very well. Thank you. 

SABRINA: Good to see you. 

DANIEL: Thank you very much for having me.

SABRINA: It's very exciting to have you. Last time I saw you, I was actually working for you in your marketing department. And now here we are on this interview. 

DANIEL: How long have you been now working on this program? 

SABRINA: Oh, gosh it's still pretty new. I'm very excited to be a part of the team. We've recorded a few episodes now and we'll see where it goes.

DANIEL: Very good. Congratulations. 

SABRINA: Thank you. And congratulations on opening the new restaurant, finally. 

DANIEL: Yes, thank you. That was something that we have been working on for four years. And of course, this last year and a half with the pandemic, that slowed down a little bit, but that was fine. And, actually, we decided to open May 19. Le Pavillon has been quite a success and quite exciting to bring back New York and to really also give more confidence to Midtown.

SABRINA: Yes, and throughout the pandemic, you and your whole team at Dinex was doing — was it Citymeals for New York? 

DANIEL: Well, yeah. First, I mean, during the pandemic, right away I started a foundation called Hand in Hand with Daniel Boulud, and that was only to help our staff. The 750 people we furloughed, it was important to raise money for them and we almost raised three-quarters of a million through the generosity of our customers, through the generosity of sponsors we work with, and partners, but also through the generosity of our public. I mean, I did a lot of Zoom class, which I charge and raise money for Hand in Hand. We created a foundation called Food1st foundation with Marc Holliday, the CEO of SL Green, where is the owner of Le Pavillon. We are partners in that project. And today we have served more than almost 800,000 meals to New Yorkers all across the boroughs. And especially at the beginning with the first responders and nurses. But also all the food pantries, food shelters, hospitals, and houses in many boroughs that needed food. And so it has been good. And I also focused on Citymeals, myself, and more than 250,000 meals was distributed to Food1st and gifted to Citymeals via my kitchen. So that was nice.

SABRINA: That's so amazing that you were able to do so much good and feed so many people during this difficult time. Speaking of feeding so many people, I remember the first time I met you was actually at an intimate dinner. We were at RdV Vineyards in Virginia and we were doing...

DANIEL: Oh, my God. 

SABRINA: Yeah, we were doing that little wine tasting and dinner. And you had put together such a beautiful, elegant table and everything was so simple but so delicious. And even though nobody knew anybody else at the table, we were all like best friends by the end of the meal. And it was just fabulous.

DANIEL: I mean, I remember still trying to do the fire pit...

SABRINA: Yes. 

DANIEL: ...In order to cook our quail? I think that was quail with grapes or something because I know then in France we have always birds, quails and all that who come to the vineyard and pick into the resin, the grapes during the harvest. So it was a great connection to the local ingredient there and also Roger, the owner of the RdV Winery in Virginia, is making one of the finest wines in America. Mostly a Cabernet-based wine, but really in the style of Bordeaux. And I think it's very inspired by many of the great house of Bordeaux, and I think that's showing the accents of his wine, for sure. 

SABRINA: Right. And so you've thrown many a fine meal and party in your lifetime. Tell me a little bit about how you like to approach entertaining in your own home.

DANIEL: For me, it all depends who I am entertaining. My family, my friends — I usually don't try to impress people with the fussiness of things or the fanciness. It's more about the soul, the flavor. I don't cook at home the way sometimes I cook in a restaurant and I'm always trying to think methodically that how many pots and pans I'm going to use. But it all depends when. Summertime? Wintertime? Outdoor? Indoor? Close friends and family versus guests, who — guests, it's a little bit more stressful because you want things to be just fine. Close friends and family, you know, they're in the kitchen. They're helping you. You put everybody to work. It's a little bit easier. But in any case, entertaining at home for me I want to make sure that I can spend time with my friends, my family, or my guests at the table, as well. So I don't want to be stuck in the kitchen all the time. So it's important to do something that can either stay warm or require a very quick last-minute cooking. So you don't go away too long or but everything else is ready. And I'm talking mostly for the main course. The appetizer should be either — I love soup, so it could be a beautiful composed soup, but the base is a warm soup or cold soup, and then there is a bowl with all kind of garnish. So let's say it's a soup base with tomato in the summer. I may have also a garnish of lobsters and tomatoes and other vegetables in the preparation. And then, in the summer, if I can grill things, I like to grill things. It's easier for me, even if it's a cut above and it takes longer time. But in the winter, I like to make braise or I like to make roast, but a big roast, whole leg of lamb or saddle of venison. You know, it's not very homey, but I love it. Or stew. A wonderful veal stew even, or chicken casserole. I love chicken casserole, as well. If I do something in a casserole, I try to have everything in one casserole. So it's topped by what takes the longest and will bring the most flavor to what takes the least to cook and needs to stay fresh and crisp.

SABRINA: I have to say, I never thought I would hear Chef Daniel Boulud say he likes chicken casserole at home.

DANIEL: Oh, yeah, and then I would do a wonderful rice or something that goes well with it. It has tomatoes. It has tarragon, vinegar, onion. It's very simple, the dish. It's very simple. It starts with a large pot, enough to contain all the chicken cut in pieces, eight pieces, and the casserole we put oil inside. We season the chicken well, and we start to roast the chicken on the skin and you can flour a little bit the chicken if you want, or you can just make sure that it is not too wet for sure. Otherwise, it's better to flour lightly the chicken or put any rice flours — we have gluten-free. And season well and roast it on all sides. Then you start to add the pearl onion while the skin is roasting. Then you have a vinegar made with tarragon. So that's very dense and flavorful.

And once the chicken is well roasted, we add tomato paste to it, a little bit, or tomato purée. A little bit of flour as well. Extra flour to layer sauce and then toss that very well and add the vinegar and make a good splash of vinegar over. Let it reduce and then put some chicken stock and fresh tomato and let it simmer gently for 20 minutes or so or 20 or 30 minutes oven. And then I do a rice pilaf on the side, which is basically a rice with sweated shallots or onion. And then add the chicken stock over — two-part chicken stock, one-part rice. And then the tarragon and let steam that rice gently or cook that rice gently. And by the time the chicken is cooked, the rice is cooked. You can be ready to sit down at the table. And it didn't take too many ingredients and it didn't take too much energy to do, and it's quite delicious.

SABRINA: No, that actually sounds really easy. 

DANIEL: And it's a specialty from Lyon, actually, that one. But chicken casserole for me, it's all about giving flavor when you roast, then putting the element you need to give to keep cooking with it. And it could be with onion, mushroom, artichokes, potatoes, whatever you're going to put and evaluate the size of the cut of the vegetable and how long it's going to take to cook perfectly and stay whole and tender, and sweet and cooked and delicious. 

SABRINA: Sounds amazing, I think I just got my new menu, maybe for Thanksgiving. Maybe I'll use turkey instead of chicken. 

DANIEL: Exactly. Cook it just the time it needs.

SABRINA: And speaking of holidays, we do have some questions from our listeners on entertaining at home for Thanksgiving and Christmas. So let's dive right in and take our first call.

CALLER: I'm calling from Mexico. My husband passed away and the first thing he put in his will is that he wanted a party to be given when he passed away. What kind of party should I do? What should I serve and how would I do it? Thank you!

DANIEL: Well. I think, you know, while you are grieving and it's maybe not the most joyful time to throw a party, it is important to gather around with your friends and your loved ones and your family and you want to eat and you want to celebrate that person. And so I'm sure, you know, if he had some good tequila he was keeping behind the bushes or some good wine in the cellar, like in a case in France or things like that, then we make sure we drink his tequila or his wine because it's important to celebrate him with the things he loved. And then if he had a dish in particular that that person loved, I think it's important to have it done. And so you can always ask your family members, your best friend — to me, I think for a funeral you should do a little bit of a potluck with people you trust that they're going to be something good and they know the taste of the person you lost and connecting with. You know? I think it's important.

SABRINA: I love that idea. I love the idea of doing a potluck and it takes the pressure off of you as the host.

DANIEL: Absolutely. But a potluck with a meaningful purpose. Which is to celebrate and honor the lost one.

SABRINA: Right. That's great. We have a question from Ann in Birmingham, Alabama. 

CALLER: I would love to hear Chef Boulud's suggestions for great tasting hors d'oeuvres that can be made ahead of time. Something that's a little fancy, but not too difficult to make.

DANIEL: Of course. So for me, my ultimate hors d'oeuvre is what I call a cheese puff in English, Which is gougère. So what is a gougère? It's a puff. It's a choux, basically but it's a savory choux. 

SABRINA: Oh a choux dough, so a pâte à choux. Like the type of dough that you find with an eclair or a beignet, or a pastry of that sort.

DANIEL: Pâte à choux. Yeah, exactly, and it's a savory one with cheese. And I always like to put a little bit of cayenne pepper or espelette pepper. And of course, gruyere for the most part. And what I like is then when you pipe those little pâte à choux in the tray or parchment paper, you pipe them in advance. You put the hot pepper and you put a little square of cheese on top besides the one you put inside. You put an extra square cheese on top and then you can either put them in the freezer. And then when they are hard, you put them in a Ziploc and you have them ready for your party. Or you can just do that the day ahead, refrigerate, and half an hour before the party or something, you just bake them. So it's always practical. You can also pre-bake them and just keep them lukewarm or flash them in the oven when you have the party. So you don't have to do anything when the guests arrive. But I mean, I'm French, so I think of baguette toast. Yeah, baguette toast with dips. And you can make dips with many different things. It could be a rillette, it could be a duck rillette that you can buy, store-bought, it could be baba ganoush then you can find maybe — a supermarket, or you could be just, you know, tomato that you chop finely and you drain the tomato or mix with cucumber and tomato together. And then you mix that with a little bit of yogurt or like a Greek yogurt and a little bit of chive and a little bit of vinegar and seasoning and then you have that little fresh tomato on the crispy toast — it's delicious. You can put a piece of olive with it. So it's almost like a Greek salad cut into little pieces that you can take a little spoon and put that on a crispy toast and eat like that. So for me, I'm all about dips. I have a restaurant called Boulud Sud and we do a lot of dips there. And it's very practical. Or gougère, which we serve that at Bar Boulud, as well.

SABRINA: So for the gougère, can listeners just pick up any pâte à choux recipe from online and then just add... 

DANIEL: Yeah. 

SABRINA: Cheese. 

DANIEL: The advantage of today with the Internet is then you type gougère au Fromage with cheese, and you compare two or three recipes and you're going to see it's very easy. It has eggs. It has milk. It has flour. It has butter. 

SABRINA: And then you can just freeze it. 

DANIEL: And you can freeze it. 

SABRINA: That's great.

DANIEL: That takes no room and it's very practical. 

SABRINA: Stay tuned as Chef Daniel helps eliminate the stress of holiday cooking with suggestions on saving time, having enough food for all of your guests, and even respecting dietary restrictions without going crazy trying to plan a menu. Oh, and you're not going to want to miss this part because Chef Daniel opens up about his kitchen catastrophes and it's pretty funny. You'll hear about all that and more, after the break! 

Welcome back to Homemade everyone. I'm Sabrina Medora and my guest this week is world-renowned chef, Daniel Boulud.

OK, next question. This one is a Thanksgiving-specific question. 

CALLER: This is Jim. My wife died a year ago and I do all the cooking now for the family gatherings. I'm looking for suggestions to reduce the hectic situation of fixing the turkey and all the sides. What can be cooked ahead? Frozen? Or any tips for reducing the tension experienced during the preparation for Thanksgiving and Christmas? Thank you very much.

DANIEL: Well, I mean, if he was living in New York I would tell him to buy the box, which has soup to nuts inside from my Daniel Boulud kitchen. But one thing, for example, macaroni and cheese. If you want to do macaroni and cheese, do that the day before. No sweat. You just have to bake it and serve it. I love sweet potato purée or pumpkin purée. And what I do is add also some orange juice inside and some spice and even banana inside a little bit and also a little bit of cream. So that is blend like that. Of course, you cook the sweet potatoes in a little bit of water and cream together until it is tender and with some grated orange peel inside and cinnamon and a little bit of allspice powder or clove and a banana — apple inside, apple and banana. And then you blend that, you make a purée, smooth purée with that. And that's quite delicious. What else? I will propose spinach or Swiss chard, or kale or braising greens. That can be blanched in salted water ahead, squeezed, seasoned. And maybe pre-sauté, a little bit with some mushrooms, and a little bit of onion — sliced onion that you sweat well, and then you add all your greens in it. You season and you just give a quick toss. You put it in a pan and you chill it right away. And then the next day you just warm that up in the oven. So basically try to do as much as possible, precook perfectly to be reheated only. Not even recooked, just reheated. That's very important. And I also like Brussel sprouts. You can blanch them again the day before and you can butter them the next day after. So all this task of preparing the vegetables and maybe par cooking the vegetables is very important because you save a lot of time. Cranberry sauce should be done in advance, of course. 

SABRINA: How many days do you think people can start preparing for Thanksgiving in advance? 

DANIEL: Two days. And what you do the days before is the first day you clean all the vegetables, you prepare yourself to cook the sides the next day, and prep the turkey also. That you can do two days ahead also. So by the time of the day of the party is effortless because everything is ready. To be cooked or baked. 

SABRINA: So you can wash your vegetables, chop everything, get everything ready. 

DANIEL: Yeah. And usually Thanksgiving nobody works so you have the whole day to prep and you don't need to eat before 2 o'clock in the afternoon or 3.

SABRINA: Right. We have another question about appetizers.

CALLER: I really love having friends over for parties and things like that, but I'm never quite sure how much food to make. I live in a small apartment, so how do I make sure there's enough food and a good rotation of food throughout the night.

DANIEL: Well, that's the thing is if you do a sit-down dinner and... A proper sit-down dinner there's not going to be much food left because you're going to be much more precise in how much food you want to give and serve it by sequence. You know, with the appetizer first, then the main course, then the cheese maybe, and dessert. If you do a buffet, you never know because some people starve all day so rule of thumb, you got to have at least a pound of food per person, which it goes very quickly between a steak, the garnish, the appetizers, you know, whatever you have. So if you have ten people, you want 10 to 12 pounds of food minimum. Minimum. And, a full plate of food? It's a pound. Easily. 

SABRINA: Wow. I'll never forget at my wedding, I mean, we had a huge dinner that we had catered from restaurants all over Chicago and then we brought late-night snacks. We had honey butter fried chicken sandwiches for late-night snacks.

DANIEL: Wow. 

SABRINA: And in minutes, we had people coming up saying, where are the sandwiches? The sandwiches are gone. I said, are you kidding me? We ordered extra. But I heard after my wedding that people were literally taking three, four sandwiches at a time and just chowing down. 

DANIEL: But you know what happened? Is then also if people drink a lot, they start to starve. 

SABRINA: Yeah. 

DANIEL: And also there is the cycle of, you know, they had dinner, they drink, and there was a gap between that and the sandwiches. And now they are starving again because they drank too much.

SABRINA: Right. So I learned my lesson that day for sure.

DANIEL: Yeah. 

CALLER: Bonjour Chef Boulud. My name is Taylor, I'm a 12-year line cook from Seattle and I just wanted to hear some of your entertaining stories about entertaining at home. 

DANIEL: Oh the worst story I have about entertaining at a friend's home. It was Thanksgiving and I was invited as a friend. And he had a new house and his oven was broken. And, you know, I was not discouraged. I knew how to cook with anything. I looked outside and he had a big barbecue with gas. And that was the only source of heat I had. It was in the winter in New York. There was snow outside. So I light up the barbecue. I see it's working well. Now it didn't have any equipment to cook with. So I had an aluminum pan — one of those disposable aluminums you find in the supermarket, and I had my turkey down and butter and buttered turkey and beautiful. And I had the barbecue on. So I put the turkey inside. I closed the top and then I go into the house. And the barbecue was outside on a little bit of a terrasse he had where he had a little space for the barbecue. And we were all having cocktails and talking and I knew it and my turkey was cooking. I was not worried. And then at one point, I looked through the window and I see flames of like five, six tall flames coming out of the barbecue. And actually, the aluminum pan melted and all the butter went on fires and all that...

SABRINA: Oh, my God. 

DANIEL: All the fat of the turkey. Basically, the turkey was on fire. 

SABRINA: Oh, my God. How did — so the foil just completely melted?

DANIEL: Yeah, the whole thing. It ruined the whole turkey. We never had dinner. 

SABRINA: Oh, my God. Well, I hope you had extra cocktails. 

DANIEL: Oh, yeah, yeah. No, we had plenty of cocktails. And we ate the garnish and all that. So talk about sometimes you think you can improvise, but you have to be very careful when you improvise. 

SABRINA: I'll say. Oh, that is hilarious. I know that this year people are going to be adjusting their menus for some dietary restrictions. You know, some people are lactose intolerant and gluten-free. Do you have any recommendations on how to reduce the stress of putting together a menu that has to please multiple people and preferences?

DANIEL: Of course. I think today we more and more have so many substitutes. I have a daughter who is lactose intolerant. I have a daughter who is gluten-free. I mean, for milk, you can use almond milk, you can use coconut milk, you can use goat milk, for that matter, because I think my daughter can take goat but cannot take cows' milk. Soy milk, as well. 

For the gluten — even Thomas Keller created a blend of starch that can replace gluten, in a way or flour. And the recipes have been adapted around that as well. And I think more and more chefs are helping, coming up with recipes gluten-free. And that's great. 

SABRINA: Would you say to just cook the whole menu with the idea of those restrictions...

DANIEL: Oh, yeah. 

SABRINA: Or those adjustments instead of doing...

DANIEL: Yeah. No, at the restaurant we do the adjustment because it's maybe one table out of 20 that may have an issue. But at home, if you know that you have a guest with that. It's better to try to compose a meal avoiding those so you don't even make a case out of it.

SABRINA: Right. That makes sense.

DANIEL: It's important. 

SABRINA: Well, thank you, Chef. We so appreciate your time. And we're so grateful that we got to spend time with you today. 

DANIEL: Thank you very much and keep doing the good work. 

SABRINA: Thank you. It was good to see you!

DANIEL: Good to see you.

SABRINA: I hope you guys enjoyed that episode as much as I did. I know that I learned a lot, and I will probably be implementing a lot of this information when I entertain at home for the holidays. But I'll try not to set my own grill on fire. 

To keep up with everything that Chef Daniel is working on you can visit him at DanielBoulud.com or follow him @danielboulud on Instagram, I know he loves that. And if you'd like to order anything from sweets to smoked salmon from Chef Daniel, you can do so via Goldbelly.com.

And don't forget to tune in next week because not only do we have a culinary icon, she also happens to be a country music icon. That's right, we're going to be chatting with Trisha Yearwood!

TRISHA YEARWOOD: It's been a wonderful adventure to go from really following my mother's handwritten recipes word for word to becoming more confident as a cook and taking things to another level and the confidence that I've gained through doing the cooking show has been just wonderful. The chefs that I've met along the way have never made me feel like because I'm a home cook, I don't have something to offer.

SABRINA: You won't wanna miss it so be sure to follow Homemade on your favorite podcast app. We're always looking for feedback on the show so if you love us and have a second, please rate us on Apple Podcasts and leave us a review.

Don't forget, you can find thousands of recipes, meal ideas, and cooking how-to's from the world's largest community of cooks at Allrecipes.com. And you can find me on Instagram, @SabrinaMedora, or at sabrinamedora.com.

This podcast was produced by AllRecipes with Digital Content Director Jason Burnett. Thanks to our production team of Rachael King, Matt Sav, Danielle Roth, Jim Hanke, Maya Kroth, and Andy Bosnak at Pod People.

This is Homemade, I'm Sabrina Medora, and remember: Cook with love, eat with joy.

Popular in Homemade Podcast
Trisha Yearwood in the kitchen standing behind the counter
Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 59: Trisha Yearwood's Love Letter to Bacon
 Article
Anne Byrn sitting on a bench beside a flower pot, picnic basket, and watering can
Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 57: Cake Mix Doctor Anne Byrn on Rethinking Dessert
 Article
Daniel Boulud
Pin
Ask Chef Daniel Boulud Your Questions About Hosting Stress-Free Parties — And Be Featured on Our Podcast
 Article
composite image of chefs byron gomez and maria mazon
Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 56: Home Cooking and Heritage With Byron Gomez and Maria Mazon from Top Chef Season 18
 Article
Martie Duncan with cookies and butter in the background
Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 53: Martie's Favorite Tips and Tricks with Guy Fieri, Andrew Zimmern, Justin Warner, and More
 Article
Padma Lakshmi and Uzo Orimalade on background with tomatoes and jollof rice
Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 55: Reclaiming Your Roots With Padma Lakshmi and Uzo Orimalade
 Article
Antoni Porowski close up headshot in front of black background wearing white shirt and black jacket
Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 54: Let's Do Dinner with Queer Eye's Antoni Porowski
 Article

Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 44: Sara Moulton On Loving Leftovers, Rethinking Prep Time, and Pioneering Food TV
 Article

Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 49: Growing Ingredients at Home With Zac Posen and Candice Walker
 Article

Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 52: Mary Ann Esposito on Artichokes, the Perfect Cheese, and All Things Italian
 Article

Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 51: MasterChef Judge Joe Bastianich and Season 10 Winner Dorian Hunter
 Article

Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 50: Nadiya Hussain on Winning The Great British Bake Off and Keeping Things Easy
 Article

Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 47: Ayesha Curry on Rasta Pasta, Pantry Prep, and Pancake-Battered Shrimp
 Article

Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 48: Delicious Vegan Ideas With Jessica Seinfeld and Kelsey Riley
 Article

Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 43: All About Biscuits With Chadwick Boyd, Scott Peacock, and Karl Worley
 Article

Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 46: Maneet Chauhan on Competition, Making Indian Food at Home, and Always Learning
 Article

Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 45: Dr. BBQ Shares His Expert Tips for Summer Barbeque
 Video

Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 42: Andrew Zimmern On Gathering With Family and Growing Where You're Planted
 Article

Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 35: Still Cooking With Julia Child
 Article

Pin
Homemade Podcast Episode 39: Celebrating Mom with Zarela Martinez and Friends
 Article
 Scroll Down For the Next Article 
Homemade Podcast Episode 62: Holiday Kitchen Advice From Padma Lakshmi, Dorian Hunter, Nadiya Hussain, Daniel Boloud, and Anne Byrn
Five former Homemade guests dish on how they holiday — with tips you can borrow.



ADVERTISEMENT

CREDIT: ALLRECIPES ILLUSTRATION

Episode Transcript
For many, this year marks the return of the larger gatherings and holiday-worthy feasts that the pandemic prevented. With the excitement of getting together, however, comes our own high expectations of how these long-awaited special occasions should unfold. So, we've enlisted five of our previous podcast guests to share their advice on eliminating stress and saving time when cooking for the holidays, plus their pro tips for enjoying this season in full.

On this episode of Homemade, hear from MasterChef winner Dorian Hunter, Cake Mix Doctor Anne Byrn, Chef Daniel Boulud, Great British Bake-Off winner Nadiya Hussain, and Top Chef host Padma Lakshmi. Their conversations with hosts Sabrina Medora and Martie Duncan include dessert hacks, advice for accommodating different diets, and practical tips for preventing holiday food fails.

Listen to this episode of Homemade on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, PlayerFM, Amazon Music, and everywhere podcasts are available beginning Nov. 24.

Related:

Homemade Podcast Episode 50: Nadiya Hussain on Winning The Great British Bake Off and Keeping Things Easy
Homemade Podcast Episode 51: MasterChef Judge Joe Bastianich and Season 10 Winner Dorian Hunter
Homemade Podcast Episode 55: Reclaiming Your Roots With Padma Lakshmi and Uzo Orimalade
Homemade Podcast Episode 57: Cake Mix Doctor Anne Byrn on Rethinking Dessert
Homemade Podcast Episode 58: Chef Daniel Boulud on Holiday Meal Prep and Entertaining at Home
 Scroll Down For the Next Article 
Homemade Podcast Episode 61: Pati Jinich on Food Culture at the Mexican Border
The charming chef and PBS host gives us a glimpse into a region that's home to more cuisines than Tex-Mex.

Each product we feature has been independently selected and reviewed by our editorial team. If you make a purchase using the links included, we may earn commission.


ADVERTISEMENT

CREDIT: COURTESY PATI JINICH

Episode Transcript
A former political analyst and James Beard Award winner, Pati Jinich has shared her heritage with millions through her cookbooks and Emmy-nominated PBS program, Pati's Mexican Table. And with contagious enthusiasm for her home country's cooking, the TV host has served as an unofficial ambassador of Mexico to an American audience.

On today's episode of Homemade, host Sabrina Medora welcomes Pati to discuss La Frontera, a new PBS docuseries that spotlights the diverse cultures and food traditions that have cropped up around the U.S. and Mexico border over the centuries. She also tells us about a few of her favorite soups, the key spices you need in your pantry to cook Mexican food, and her new cookbook, Treasures of the Mexican Table: Classic Recipes, Local Secrets.


Treasures of the Mexican Table: Classic Recipes, Local Secrets
$19.99
SHOP IT
Amazon
About Pati Jinich
Born in Mexico City, Mexico, Pati Jinich studied political science at the Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México before earning a master's in Latin American studies from Georgetown University. While she worked as a political analyst at the Inter-American Dialogue in Washington, DC, her lifelong love for food led her to enroll at L'Academie de Cuisine in Maryland. She began hosting live cooking demonstrations for the Mexican Cultural Institute in Washington, DC, which included lessons on Mexican cooking and history.

Jinich's popular PBS cooking series, Pati's Mexican Table, debuted in 2011. She has since authored three cookbooks: Pati's Mexican Table: The Secrets of Real Mexican Home Cooking, Mexican Today: New and Rediscovered Recipes for Contemporary Kitchens, and Treasures of the Mexican Table: Classic Recipes, Local Secrets. A mother to three sons, Jinich lives with her husband in Maryland. Follow her on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter, and check out her website.

 Scroll Down For the Next Article 
Homemade Podcast Episode 60: Poppy O'Toole and Chitra Agrawal on Potatoes, Pickles, and Everything in Between
This week's guests have mastered the art of making comfort food at home — and simplified it for the rest of us.

Each product we feature has been independently selected and reviewed by our editorial team. If you make a purchase using the links included, we may earn commission.


ADVERTISEMENT
Pin
FB

Share


What good does comfort food do if it's a hassle to prepare? On this week's episode of Homemade, host Sabrina Medora chats with two women who are blazing trails for home cooks everywhere. And if you crave the carbs and creaminess of potato dishes or the warming spices of butter chicken, you're in for a treat.

First, U.K. TikTok sensation and Michelin-trained chef Poppy O'Toole recounts how losing a job led to her fast rise to fame as the self-proclaimed potato queen, including the roles her younger siblings and Internet-famous take on McDonald's hashbrowns had. She also dishes the potato recipe she wants to make ASAP and her advice for decadent fondant potatoes.

Then, chef and cookbook author Chitra Agrawal tells us about Brooklyn Dehli, her popular line of premium Indian-American products, which includes simmer sauces like Vegan Tikka Masala and condiments like Curry Ketchup, Curry Mustard, and pickled garlic and tomatoes. She gives us the scoop on how to make one of her favorite pickled foods (achaars) and how she uses it. Chitra and Sabrina also discuss curry.

Listen to this episode of Homemade on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, PlayerFM, Amazon Music, and everywhere podcasts are available beginning Nov. 10.

About Chitra Agrawal
Born and raised in New Jersey, Chitra Agrawal studied psychology at the University of California, Berkeley before earning her MBA in marketing from New York University. With more than a decade of digital marketing work behind her, she shifted her focus to running her food brand, Brooklyn Delhi, and writing. Chitra is the author of Vibrant India: Fresh Vegetarian Recipes from Bangalore to Brooklyn. Her writing has also appeared in Bon Appetit, Saveur, Serious Eats, and more.


Vibrant India: Fresh Vegetarian Recipes from Bangalore to Brooklyn
$18.69
SHOP IT
Amazon
About Poppy O'Toole
Hailing from London, Poppy O'Toole began working in kitchens at 18 years old. At the Michelin-starred Purnell's Restaurant in Birmingham, England, she trained as a line cook. She further built her fine-dining resume with jobs including junior sous chef at London's J. P. Morgan and a members' club. Losing her job during the summer of 2020 led to a new, unexpected career as an influencer with more than 2 million followers across her social media accounts. The 27-year-old chef recently became an author with Poppy Cooks: The Food You Need.


Poppy Cooks: The Food You Need
$15.21
SHOP IT
Amazon
Episode Transcript
SABRINA MEDORA: Hey, food fans! I'm food writer and culinary entrepreneur, Sabrina Medora, and you're listening to Homemade by Allrecipes. Each week, we bring you talented home cooks, authors, chefs, and celebrities to discuss the memories and traditions behind their favorite foods along with discussions on what's happening in food culture today. 

I don't know about you folks, but I've had many a moment over the years where I'm craving something that feels distinctly like comfort food but seems way too complicated to actually cook. Well, this week's guests may come from different backgrounds but they're both passionate about making comfort food even simpler to make at home. You'll be hearing from cookbook author and founder of the wildly popular Brooklyn Delhi brand, Chitra Agrawal, on curries, pickles, and how Indian cooking can actually be a breeze whether you're a newcomer or very familiar. But first, we'll be hearing from a Michelin-trained chef turned TikTok superstar whose putting a spotlight on the ingredient everyone can agree on: the humble potato.

She's the self-proclaimed 'potato queen' and her first book is officially out now. Homemade listeners, please welcome, all the way from London, Poppy O' Toole!

Hey, Poppy.

POPPY O'TOOLE: Hello, hello. Thank you for having me. I'm excited. 

SABRINA: I'm so excited to talk to you. You're like a TikTok superstar. You have a fabulous connection with potatoes, and I feel like I've found my soulmate a little bit. 

POPPY: Oh, good. OK, well, at least we're kindred spirits then. 

SABRINA: Exactly. I mean, how can you not love a potato?

POPPY: I don't know. I don't trust anybody now, who doesn't love potatoes. It's like, you know, when people don't trust 'not-dog' people. And I'm like...

SABRINA: Oh, yeah. 

POPPY: ...No, if you're not a potato person, I don't know if we can be friends. 

SABRINA: Well, I am a dog person and a potato person. 

POPPY: Yes, perfect.  

SABRINA: So I feel like really that's the best combo. And to all the cat people out there listening, I respect you and to all the potato on-the-fencers, clearly, you just need to watch some of Poppy's videos and get in the kitchen and perhaps make her famous hash browns from McDonald's, which actually Poppy, that's what made you famous.  

POPPY: It started the ball rolling. I've got to say. It was only about my 10th video, so we weren't really far into doing social media, and, yeah, I just recreated the McDonald's hash brown and newspapers for some reason decided that they thought that was interesting. I thought that was going to be it. I thought that's the peak. This is it. I've made it. But yet for some reason, it carried on from there.

SABRINA: So you lost your job during the pandemic last year. I actually was — you know, I followed you on Instagram. And you had written about how heart-wrenching it was. And I feel you on a personal level because I too was working in restaurants just on the sort of admin side of everything. 

POPPY: Yes.  

SABRINA: And so I remember the day of the shutdown. I was sitting on my couch and like, alright, I'm ready for it. And one by one, the phone calls started happening and I lost all my clients in the span of about two days. 

POPPY: Yeah it was a really bizarre moment for anybody working in hospitality, like, front of house, back of house, doing any admin stuff. We were all taken into the room all together, and it was just like, 'We're closing. You've all lost your jobs.' And then on the Tube home, I was just like, oh, that's 10 years of my life just gone. So part of me was like, 'Oh, we'll be closed for like three weeks. Hopefully, I'll be able to get another job when we come out of lockdown in three weeks' time.' How naive to think it would be three weeks. And I just thought you know what? I'm going to go back home. So I live in London. But my hometown is in Birmingham, in the Midlands, in the UK. So I went back home to my family home with my little brother and sister. I thought 'you know what, I'll have a nice little break,' and I'll get to be with my family because they've never even eaten my food before. I've never cooked for them. So I thought, yeah, nice little holiday. But it turned into something amazing and also quite scary at the same time.

SABRINA: It's amazing how many chefs I've interviewed over the past several years that tell me my family's never eaten my food. 

POPPY: Yeah. You don't get a chance to do it. Like, you get like, what? A Sunday or Monday off? Or whatever your days off. Like the last thing you want to do is get everybody over and cook for anyone because all you want to do is catch up on sleep, catch up on any TV shows that you've missed because you don't actually want to physically do anything. You just want to sit in front of a TV and do whatever. And actually talking to people is one of the last things you want to do. 

SABRINA: Right. Yeah, I totally get that. And also, you don't even want to cook for yourself. It's so funny how many people think that chefs eat these like fabulous meals at home when really it's like ramen. 

POPPY: Yeah, it's literally microwave or hot water on top of noodles, anything but actually cooking. I mean, you can occasionally put something out if you're really desperate, but most of the time you are just like, putting something in the microwave.

SABRINA: So what got you thinking like, OK, I'm going to start making TikTok videos? How did that even come about?

POPPY: So because I went home, I've got a younger little sister about 14 years younger than me. So it's a big age gap, so they're really little. And they were just ignoring me on their phones. And I was like, let's play a game. And they're, like, just scrolling. And I was like, right, well, I'm going to take over that platform then so you can see me. And they helped me get onto TikTok and kind of showed me the ropes a little bit. And we just started creating some food together. So I think one of my first videos was just making some churros with my little sister. I really started to enjoy it. And I felt so helpless in that time. You know, all I've ever done is cook. That's the only thing that I can do and I can do it all right, I think. I like to think that I'm quite all right at it.

SABRINA: Right.

POPPY: And I just thought, if this can help somebody maybe have an easier evening after work or, they can produce some nice food that they want to or they have any questions. That's the only way that I'm going to help. So I tried my best to do that. And then I think one of my videos got a comment from a key worker at the time, saying, like, after a 13-hour shift, this was absolutely perfect for the family. And I was just like, OK, I need to keep going with this and help people in any way that I can. And just teach people new techniques, I suppose, and it hasn't stopped since.

SABRINA: I mean, there's such a draw because getting trained from a Michelin-trained chef. Who would think that that was possible? You know, maybe on MasterClass, like when Gordon Ramsay put out a video for MasterClass. But to have it readily available just as you're scrolling through, you know, on a random weekday night on the couch. 

POPPY: I like to think that I've kind of done the training so that people don't have to, and then they get some delicious food at the end of it, hopefully. I keep saying hopefully. The food is good. I promise you, I make nice food. 

SABRINA: Oh, it's good. It's good. Now you have a book out. It's called, Poppy Cooks: The Food You Need. And it released in September of this year. Right? 

POPPY: Yes, in the UK, it came out in September. But in North America and Canada, it's coming out 9th of November. 

SABRINA: Excellent. OK. So I want to talk about this a little bit because my background is actually in publishing. I went to a publishing school, believe it or not, after college. And then I worked for Penguin Books for quite some time. 

POPPY: Oh, lovely.

SABRINA: I know how long it takes for a book to come out. You lost your job in March.

POPPY: Yeah.  

SABRINA: Got a book deal, wrote a book, recipe tested, shot the book, and published it in under two years. Tell me your secrets. Go. 

POPPY: So it's just absolute mania. That's what happens. So the publishers in the UK — so Bloomsbury got in contact with me in, I think, it's about September of 2020. And I saw this email and I nearly wet myself. I was like, 'Oh my God, what the hell is going on?' and I think I had about between 50 to 100,000 followers at that point, you know, massive still on TikTok for me, I thought that was, you know, the pinnacle. So, I put a proposal forward the week later and they enjoyed it and it got pushed on. And then my followers were going up as well. And they were like, 'while the ball's rolling, let's try and get this done.' So initially they said, September 2022. And then I think because overnight on one of my videos, I went from like 200,000 followers to like a million. And they were like, 'right September 2021.' And I was like, 'what? How? How is this going to happen?' So, all the recipes were written and tested by January. 

SABRINA: Oh my God. 

POPPY: Which was really, really fun, a lot of washing up. But really good fun.

SABRINA: You didn't sleep. You didn't sleep for three months. I got you.  

POPPY: It was just constant. Yeah. So that was really interesting to do because a lot of the recipes within the book are things I just love to eat anyway. And stuff that I cook on the regular. But then I have to stop and weigh everything out and test it. And make sure it was still the right thing. 

As a chef, you kind of do cook with your eyes and heart. Sometimes you don't always weigh everything out, you're just making things that taste nice. So to go back and have to weigh everything was like a struggle for me. And then we had the photoshoot, I was cooking, like, about eight dishes a day. More than eight dishes a day, but you can only take photos of eight dishes a day because it was a lot of work for the photographer, for the props person it was stressful, but it wasn't as bad as it should have been for the time frame, I think.

SABRINA: This reminds me of the Harry Potter words where they're in divination, and Ron is reading Harry's tea leaves. And he goes, so you're going to suffer but you're going to be happy about it.

POPPY: Yes, that's exactly what it was like. I was suffering, but I was so happy that I was doing it for my own cookbook. So I was like, yeah, we'll just be fine. We'll do it. 

SABRINA: Well, I mean, truly, congratulations on that because I know what that process is like, and for your editors and the publishing house to have such faith in you and you proved them right. I mean, you really delivered. And the book is spectacular. And I just know...

POPPY: Thank you.

SABRINA: I mean, it's just the beginning for you. I can just feel it.

POPPY: I like to think so. Every day I'm like, if it all ends now, I've had the best — like, I'm so grateful that all this has happened, and it's just — I would never have thought this could have ever actually happened. So I think that's one thing that helps me is that I'm just — I'm very, very happy that this — I was even given an opportunity to do any of this. So that's what I — you know, I take it one day at a time because you never know.

SABRINA: Right.

POPPY: It's set out in, kind of, a different way to a normal cookbook. It's got these 12 core recipes which make the chapters. And those core recipes are like the skills almost. So you have, like, tomato sauce and then you build it from that core recipe to make, like, a staple dish, which is well-good meatballs and spaghetti. You know, something like everyone knows, but this is the way that I like to do it. And then you kind of got a brunch dish as well, using that tomato sauce. And then you've got a potato dish using the tomato sauce. And then you've got a fancy AF dishes using the tomato sauce. And that goes on throughout the whole book. And I just wanted to make it really accessible for everybody, whether it's the first time you've ever been in the kitchen or whether you make things for your whole family every single day. It's just — you know, you can take something away from it each time, I like to think. Like a new skill or a new idea. 

SABRINA: I mean, to me, it kind of sounds like you're translating your chef training into this book because so often, you know, it's kind of like you learn the mother sauces and you learn the techniques to do something so basic and then you build up. So really, it is like lessons from a Michelin star chef. 

POPPY: I'll put that on the tagline next time actually. That sounds better than what I've written in there.

SABRINA: You're going to send me a signed copy and you can — yeah. Write that right on the cover and I'll take a picture and make sure everyone sees it. I do feel like this is just the beginning for you, which means there's lots more recipes to cook, but I'm dying to know what is the one potato recipe or maybe several, that you haven't tried yet, but are dying to, like, put up on TikTok? 

POPPY: Oh, OK. In America, there's a lot of whipped potatoes. And you do it with, like, the hand whisk sort of thing and actually whip them. I want to develop that, but with also like a cheese within. So it's, like, a cheesy, whipped like mash baked something else underneath it. That's something that is calling my name constantly. And now we're into autumn or fall. I'm like, 'Yes, this is when this time needs to happen.' So I've seen a lot of videos like that, and I'm like, I need to recreate and make this my own. I keep trying to do — you know, have you seen the fans of potato? And you, like, do a little crisscross? 

SABRINA: Yes.  

POPPY: They're the most difficult things I've ever tried, attempted to make in my life. Whenever I do it, I try — you know, I cut it nice and neat and I think I've done is perfectly. And then I put it onto the skewer and it doesn't move. It just stays in the chunk that's just got some crisscrosses in it. And I'm like, 'How do they do this?' So I really want to get better at that, but I don't think I'm going to be able to. I don't think I've got the skillset for that. Maybe. I need to work it out. It's one of those things that really, really frustrates me because I'm like, it looks so simple. And I should be able to do that, in essence. But I can't. But yeah, so that's what I want to be able to do.

SABRINA: I'm going to keep an eye out. I think I remember you saying at some point that your favorite potato might be the potato fondant?

POPPY: Yes, I love potato fondant. I just love that you can just cook potato and pure butter, and it becomes crispy and then really soft and buttery on the inside. It's just one of my favorite things in the world. In the world. My top five spuds always, always change. It's with the seasons. It's whatever I'm fancying, whether I've had it recently. But it's usually a fondant's up there just because of how decadent it is. 

SABRINA: OK, I need you to tell our listeners how to do this fondant if they haven't watched the video yet. Go. Make it really simple. 

POPPY: OK, so, peel your potato. Cut into a round as best you can. Similar heights, if you do more than one. Then in a pan, you want to get a little bit of oil, a little bit of garlic, and thyme. Heat that up. Put your potatoes in on a flat side. Then, once they got cooked on one side, turn them over onto the opposite side, and then you're going to cover with clarified butter. And then you're going to put a little bit of baking paper on top, so none of the steam can kind of go away. So they can cook through. And then you're going to leave it on a low medium heat. You kind of have to keep an eye on it until all the butter has gone, disappeared, and you're left with these potatoes that are stuck to the bottom of the pan. And you just need to leave them to cool down completely. Give them a little bit of a wiggle, and eventually, they'll come off the bottom and they are golden brown, crispy, like, unbelievably delicious. But then they are soft and cooked just with full whipped butter the whole way through. And they are, they are deathly, but they are absolutely delicious. 

SABRINA: I think we need to use the word magnificent.

POPPY: Mag — oh yes. They are magnificent. You will look at them and go, how did I just make that? Oh, how is that even a thing that you can eat because it is so perfect?

SABRINA: Now you said cover with butter. Does that mean the whole potato needs to be sort of covered with — you just slather butter?

POPPY: Submerge. Submerge with melted, clarified butter. 

SABRINA: OK.  

POPPY: So it's just liquid. It's so bad. 

SABRINA: So your arteries will clog. 

POPPY: Yeah.  

SABRINA: But you will die so happy, basically. 

POPPY: Yeah. And I mean, you're going to do about five, six potatoes in one pan. And you want to make sure that all the crevices are filled. So any kind of trimmings of the potato, shove that down every orifice of the pan. Then you get these little extra bits to eat as well that aren't particularly perfect, but they're delicious.

SABRINA: Oh, that sounds so good. OK, I know what I'm making for lunch today. There goes my 'healthy eating' for the day. Poppy, I love hearing about kitchen disasters. It's like a thing of mine.

POPPY: Yeah.  

SABRINA: Because I have so many on the regular and I just want to hear that everyone that's doing amazing things in the kitchen also has these disaster moments?

POPPY: All the time. All the time. The amount of things I have to start again. So professionally, I've done a few massive ones. Caramel just haunts me. I'd made some caramel. I poured it over — you know, used it. And then I put the pan, the dirty pan filled with water back onto the stove because it gets the stuck caramel off. 

SABRINA: Right.  

POPPY: So it's a brownie color. So I go back over a few minutes later, I pick up the pan and I throw it down the sink.  

SABRINA: Oh my God.  

POPPY: And I smelled it. And I stopped and I thought, 'what is this?' And it was the pork choux which the head chef had been making for two days. And I just poured it down the sink. 

SABRINA: OK, that's, that's a faux pas. 

POPPY: I was stood there and I was, like, shaking. So I just realized what I'd done. Everyone looked at me and I was like, I'm so sorry, I am so sorry. And I started laughing because when I get nervous, I start laughing. And they were like, what are you laughing at? And I was like, I don't know! And then eventually I end up crying because I was like, I don't know how to deal with this. And I just kept apologizing. Eventually, we laughed about it after about three weeks.

SABRINA: Three weeks, right? That's actually a relatively short amount of time. I think if I had done that with one of my old chefs — yeah, I don't even want to think about that, actually.

POPPY: It was quite — it was a nice restaurant. There's only about four of us in there, so we all had to get along. There was no option for anyone to be nasty so the rest of the service I didn't get spoken to by anybody, which was like, fair enough, I'll take that. I don't want to speak to anybody right now. But then, yeah, about two to three weeks later, we were all back on good terms and laughing about the pork sauce. 

SABRINA: Oh my God. But yes, in this story is a good lesson for our listeners. It's something I do every night, especially when I use my Dutch ovens. When you have crusty stuff. Don't try scrubbing it off. Just put some water in it, put it back on the stove, and boil it off. And a trick that one of my chef friends taught me, Joanna Hellgrill from D.C., she told me to add a little bit of baking soda and make, like, a paste and then put it on the stove. Works like a charm every time. 

POPPY: Oh, so you put the paste on and then water. And then...

SABRINA: Yes, so actually not even that much water. So what I'll do is, I'll dump out, you know, whatever I can in the sink. 

POPPY: Yeah. 

SABRINA: And then I'll grab my baking soda and I'll just sort of put a thin layer on the bottom of the pan and I'll just take my sponge or whatever and just sort of like, mix it in with just maybe a droplet or two of water. So a paste forms. And I put it right where all the sticky, stubborn bits are. And then I add a little more water after that. Maybe like five minutes later, throw it on the stove. It all boils off and your pan will look brand new every time. 

POPPY: Oh, that's perfect. That's a good tip, that is. I haven't heard that one. 

SABRINA: Yeah. OK. Alright. We're going to do a special segment. It's called fire five.

POPPY: Oh, OK.  

SABRINA: And I'm going to ask you five questions real fast.

POPPY: Yeah.  

SABRINA: You can't think you just have to answer.

POPPY: OK, there could be some very weird answers coming out. Let's go.

SABRINA: I should have thought of more weird questions, but oh well. We have what we have. OK? Who is the one celebrity chef you're dying to cook with?

POPPY: Gordon Ramsay. 

SABRINA: I knew you were going to say that.

POPPY: I think everybody just wants to, don't they? Just wants — just cause, I mean, he's doing everything as well now. It'd be great.  

SABRINA: He's coming to the United States, I believe, too.

POPPY: Oh, is he?  

SABRINA: Yeah.  

POPPY: Well — maybe you need to get him on.  

SABRINA: OK, well, Gordon Ramsay, if you're listening. OK, here we go. Favorite type of salt?

POPPY: Maldon.

SABRINA: OK. Favorite kitchen tool?  

POPPY: Maryse. Spatula, sorry.  

SABRINA: Worst potato type ever? 

POPPY: Oh, oh, that's a horrible question. Why would you say that? 

SABRINA: I know. 

POPPY: They're all my babies. I think my least favorite, although I do love them, is a new potato. 

SABRINA: I have to say I love cooking new potatoes in stock and bacon fat and just like putting it on a pan together, it really is good.

POPPY: Oh, you've made me regret all of my life choices. Yes. That sounds delicious. Damn.

SABRINA: OK. When you come over to the States, you're going to come visit me in San Diego.

POPPY: Yes.  

SABRINA: And I will make you bacon fat new potatoes. 

POPPY: Oh, you're going to see a video come out soon. You can be like that's mine. I'll be like, I'm sorry.

SABRINA: You better put my name on it. 

POPPY: No. Yeah, I will. 

SABRINA: OK. Would you rather have your own TV show or just keep doing social?

POPPY: Oh, social. TV! Both. Both, yeah I'd go on there. 

SABRINA: You're allowed to say both.

POPPY: Both, why not?

SABRINA: Trick question. I'm helping you manifest. OK? We're going to say it. We're going to speak it into existence. TV and social. Gordon Ramsay's special guest star. TV and social.

POPPY: That's gonna be the best 2022 ever.

SABRINA: Well, you know what, I have to say that post that you shared on Instagram where you said, I've lost my job. I'm so lost. I don't know what to do now. You ended that post — and I have the quote. You ended it saying, '2021, I'm coming for ya.' And you did.

POPPY: Did I? Wow. I manifested it. I didn't even realize.

SABRINA: So now we're going to manifest 2022. And for everybody listening, this is your chance. Shoot your shot.

POPPY: Yes.  

SABRINA: Just speak out loud what you want and just go for it. I bet you things will be a good day.

POPPY: Yes, you just got to keep saying it. You've got to keep saying in your head, I'm coming for you and then you'll do it.

SABRINA: And when all else fails, just go cook some potatoes.

POPPY: And that will make you feel happy. 

SABRINA: Well, thank you so much for joining us. I can't wait to keep seeing what you do and developing our friendship and hopefully having you on here again soon and all our love across the pond. 

POPPY: Oh, thank you so much. I thoroughly enjoyed it. I am going to go and cook myself some potatoes as well because, why not?

SABRINA: Why not? OK, thank you everyone for listening.

POPPY: Thank you. 

SABRINA: Poppy's new book is called Poppy Cooks: The Food You Need. And of course, you can find her all over TikTok, Instagram, and Twitter by searching 'Poppy Cooks.' Stay tuned after the break, as we'll chat with Chitra Agrawal, the founder of Brooklyn Delhi. She and I will be discussing the differences between Northern and Southern Indian cuisine and she'll also tell us how we really can't go wrong by adding a jar of achar, or pickles, to our next foray in the kitchen. That and more are coming up here on Homemade. 

Hey everyone! Welcome back to Homemade. I'm Sabrina Medora and my next guest is Chitra Agrawal, co-founder of Brooklyn Delhi. Brooklyn Delhi is an Indian-American food brand inspired by Chitra's family recipes and her love for plant-based ingredients. She's specialized in developing flavors inspired by her heritage, as well as Indian culinary traditions for over a decade.

Chitra is the author of Vibrant India: Fresh Vegetarian Recipes from Bangalore to Brooklyn. Her work has been featured in the New York Times, Food & Wine, Vogue Magazine, and many many more. Please welcome Chitra Agrawal. 

Hi, Chitra, and welcome to Homemade.  

CHITRA AGRAWAL: Hi, thanks for having me. 

SABRINA: Thank you so much for being here. I am thrilled to be talking with you because my whole pantry is just Brooklyn Delhi and has been for many, many years. 

CHITRA: Aw. Amazing. Thank you. 

SABRINA: I love, love, love, love all of your products because it reminds me of home. And in a way, it actually reminds me of more than home because my mom didn't always make the most Indian food growing up. Like, she'd make Parsi food a lot, but not necessarily like achars and things like that. So it's kind of like having that taste of India when I'm no longer in India.

CHITRA: Amazing. I love to hear that. 

SABRINA: Let's start off with were you born and raised in India? Or were you born and raised in the United States? Tell me about your background.

CHITRA: I was born and raised in Jersey.

SABRINA: Where in Jersey? 

CHITRA: In New Providence. It's a really small town in Union County. 

SABRINA: Yes. 

CHITRA: OK. You know?

SABRINA: I lived in Jersey. That's where my family settled. 

CHITRA: Oh! Oh, that's right. I remember reading that. OK?

SABRINA: Yeah. 

CHITRA: Where were you in Jersey? 

SABRINA: We were in Bergen County. 

CHITRA: Oh, that's the next county over. OK. My parents, though, would go back to India every year. And so that's kind of how my brother, who's older than me, and I would really have a connection to India and our relatives there and then my parents, they both love to cook. So that's another way that we were exposed to Indian culture. But, yeah, I'm a Jersey girl.

SABRINA: That is fantastic. I, too, am a Jersey girl. Although I've lived in so many different places, I feel like I can call so many places my home and yet nowhere my home. So that gets weird. But...

CHITRA: Yeah. 

SABRINA: Jersey I...

CHITRA: No, I get you. I went to school in California and lived in California for about eight years and then moved back to the East Coast about, I guess, now 16 years ago.

SABRINA: OK. And are you in Brooklyn now?

CHITRA: Right now I'm in upstate New York, in Kingston, New York. 

SABRINA: OK. But you were in Brooklyn when you started this venture, I'm guessing?

CHITRA: Yes. Yes. I was. And just with the two kids and like pandemic, we ended up kind of moving to many different places in the last year. We were near my husband's family in Wisconsin. We were living in another place in upstate. We went back to Brooklyn and then finally just came back up here. 

SABRINA: OK, a very important question. Is your husband a Packers fan? 

CHITRA: He is. He is. 

SABRINA: OK, good. 

CHITRA: He's not like a super sports guy. But if you were to ask him who his team is, it would definitely be the Packers. 

SABRINA: Well, go Pack go, because my husband's family is also from Wisconsin and Arizona, but...

CHITRA: Yeah. 

SABRINA: A big, big presence in Wisconsin. And when I first moved to the United States you know, being in Jersey, I kind of automatically gravitated towards the Yankees and the Giants and things like that. But as I started to understand sports more and then I went to school in Indiana, I actually just, like, fell in love with the Packers. And then lo and behold, like seven years later, I met my husband, who is a huge Packers fan. So we're a big Packers household here. 

CHITRA: That's cool. Yeah, that's what I was foreshadowing of meeting your husband.

SABRINA: Yeah, yeah. 

CHITRA: You first became a Packers fan. 

SABRINA: That's so great. So Brooklyn and then Delhi. So I'm guessing that your family is from Delhi.

CHITRA: My father is from Delhi and my mom is actually from Bangalore. So two different cultures and foods that I grew up eating, too. 

SABRINA: Yeah, it would be great for the listeners to understand a bit about why those two are so different.

CHITRA: Gosh, they're — they're worlds apart. A lot of North Indian food, I think most people are a little bit more familiar with because a lot of the Indian restaurants serve more North Indian food. So my dad would make chole or chana masala, rajma, which I feel like needs to get a little bit more play here, which I love. 

SABRINA: Yeah. 

CHITRA: Which is kidney bean curry. And then Matar paneer. And then he loves to make bread. So he'll make paratha or puri or chapati. And then my mom, who's from South India, I feel like it's more rice-centric. So, a lot of, kind of like, lemon rice and then Saru, which is lentil and tomato. Some people call it — I guess, it's also referred to as rasam. 

SABRINA: OK, yeah. 

CHITRA: And sambar. I guess in — she grew up in Karnataka, in Bangalore, so it's called kuli.

SABRINA: OK. 

CHITRA: I know that's the whole thing about, I feel like, Indian cuisine. It's just kind of like — I mean, not only is it so vast and different from region to region, but it's like within South India, it's like similar dishes are called by different names. 

SABRINA: Yeah, it does get very confusing, even for someone that — I mean, I have spent 13, 14 years of my life in India, and I still couldn't identify half of those foods that I saw.

CHITRA: Right. Yeah, totally. So, yeah. So I feel like that's kind of the difference. A very simplistic difference is that my father's food would be, kind of, more kind of breads and curries. And then my mother's would be kind of more soupy like lentils and rice dishes. A lot of coconut, curry leaves, mustard seeds. And then my father is more kind of like garam masala, coriander powder, cumin seed. So, those are kind of the differences just from, like, a very high level.

SABRINA: Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And so you have been a chef and a cooking instructor. You have a book called, Vibrant India: Fresh Vegetarian Recipes from Bangalore to Brooklyn, which came out a couple of years ago now. And tell me how Brooklyn Delhi came to be. 

CHITRA: Sometimes I think, I'm like, I can't believe I'm doing this because I was doing something totally different before and I started just writing on a blog. It started in 2009, called the ABCD's of Cooking. A blog that I think just, you know, my mother read.

SABRINA: And for those who don't know ABCD stands for American Born Confused Desi, so it's hilarious that your blog was actually named that.

CHITRA: Yeah, I mean, because it's this term that a lot of kids that grew up in America, their parents just are like, 'Oh, you're being such an ABCD.' And I felt like I wanted to take that term and just throw it on its head and just also celebrate this perspective, which is the Indian-American perspective. And so a lot of the food that I was making, I really started to just document my family's recipes. But then over time, I was starting to play with the techniques and make different recipes based off of maybe seasonal produce or working with different chefs that came from different points of view.

So I had an Indian-Mexican supper club at one point and an Indian-Chinese supper club with a Chinese cookbook author, Diana Quan. So, I was able to kind of explore my own kind of interest in cooking, using a lot of these techniques and recipes that I had learned through my family. And I think that when you think about ABCD, the Indian-American perspective in food, a lot of that work that I was doing before really just rolled into what became Brooklyn Delhi, which was, I can argue is a better name than ABCD.

So, yeah. So that's basically, I mean, how Brooklyn Delhi came to be. And I had actually developed a lot of the achar recipes when I was writing the ABCD's of Cooking, where I was taking produce that I was getting in my weekly farm share and then making achar out of them. So I'd get rhubarb, I'd get green gooseberries, heirloom tomatoes, all of these different things and I grew up loving achar, so trying to figure out, like, how can I make my own using these vegetables and fruits. Because I feel like achar, a lot of what it is is it's preservation of vegetables and fruits that are in season. And so I wanted to apply that same kind of thinking to the vegetables and fruits that I was getting in my weekly farm share.

SABRINA: Yeah. And a lot of people, especially these days, are familiar with fermentation.

CHITRA: Right. 

SABRINA: And I actually had a couple of people because I will often post about the different achars that I like to eat with my food or even just put on popcorn. And, someone reached out to me yesterday saying, what is that? And I said — the one I was eating was actually not Brooklyn Delhi, but it was gor Keri, which is — it's like the mango achar.

CHITRA: Yeah. 

SABRINA: And I tried to explain it's — because she thought it was something along the lines of like the spicy chili crunch. Like, a Lao gan ma, I was like, well, actually, it's very sweet with notes of spices that come from the east. Like lots of cumin, fenugreek, asafoetida, and turmeric, but a beautiful way to preserve any vegetable or fruit. 

CHITRA: Oh, yeah. Definitely. You know, the one thing that I find so interesting is that achar or just pickling, in general, is practiced all over India. And it's really made in so many different ways. So when we're kind of trying to figure out how do we want to launch achar with Brooklyn Delhi, we had thought about, should we call it Indian pickle. Right? Or should we do achar, which is in Hindi, that's what Indian pickle is referred to as. But where my mom in her language, Kannada, it's called avakaai. So I mean, it's also referred to in all of these different ways. And it's so cool to kind of just understand what gets pickled and how things get pickled. So I would learn in North India for my relatives that they would take root vegetables and then pickle them and use mustard oil and different spices, I'd say, than my South Indian relatives. They'd use fennel seed, and kalonji, and coriander seed. And then in the South, where my mom is from some of the pickles will use sesame oil, and instead of like a root vegetable, well, primarily, my grandmother would make lemon or lime pickle, or green mango, and she would use fenugreek seed powder, black mustard seeds, asafoetida, and chili. So, she would just like have achar sitting in these ceramic, kind of, jugs and it would just be the lemons or limes fermenting in the salt and turmeric and chili. 

And then she would take, kind of, a portion of that and then season it with oil and the asafoetida, black mustard seeds. And that's what they would kind of eat maybe that day or that week. but then the rest of the pickle, it would continue to ferment. So it's so interesting cause, like, the flavor changes as well, right? 

SABRINA: That's so interesting. I'd never heard of that. 

CHITRA: Yeah. 

SABRINA: I mean, I'll be the first to admit I've never made achar in my life. Why would I when I have Brooklyn Delhi?

CHITRA: Right, right. I know. 

SABRINA: But yeah, it's so interesting to hear how versatile it can be. And another thing that I always like to tell my friends and family that aren't as familiar with achar is it's less like a crunchy pickle, like a kimchi or something like that. And it's more like a jammy pickle, which is really just like a treat and my favorite way of eating a pickle because it's got that — I don't even really know how to describe it.

CHITRA: Is it umami? 

SABRINA: It's got that viscosity. 

CHITRA: Oh yes. 

SABRINA: It's got the — the texture of it.

CHITRA: Right. 

SABRINA: It's not just pieces of mango that you pick up and put on your mouth, and it's like a crunch with some fermentation. I mean, you can literally spread it on bread and use it as a jam.

CHITRA: Totally. I know. And that's why we kind of struggled with should we come out with it as Indian pickle. But it was just that if we were selling it in grocery stores here in the U.S., a lot of people — the first thing they think about when they think about a pickle is a dill pickle. And I think that, as you said, like an Indian pickle is so different. And there's a lot of education as far as kind of explaining to people what it's all about and how to use it too.

SABRINA: So tell us, how do you use your achars?

CHITRA: Well, I use it in many different ways. Traditionally I love it with rice and daal. I mean, that's like, that's it. But in South India, also, this is one thing that I love that my mom's family does often which is serve just rice, yogurt, and then mix in the achar, and a lemon pickle. I mean, that is such a nostalgic flavor for me. And then I also grew up having it in like cheese sandwiches, so spread on a sandwich. I love my tomato achar with eggs, and, like the garlic pickle. We make a roasted garlic, like, a bread with it. It's like garlic bread, but with the roasted garlic achar. It is so good. 

SABRINA I've done that myself and I have to vouch it's so easy. Just like go to the supermarket, get some baguettes or any kind of crusty bread and then just swoop just like lashings of the garlic. I mean, I've literally used an entire jar in one sitting. And it is the best, the absolute best. And then for your tomato achar, I actually use it as a substitute for other ingredients and spices. So I know it has cumin. I know it's got tomato. I know it has been fenugreek. So I will just dollop that in if I'm making a daal or a curry or even keema, which is our version of minced meat.

CHITRA: Oh, yeah. Yeah.

SABRINA: I'll just use that. 

CHITRA: Amazing.

SABRINA: And honestly, I'll just put ground beef in the pan. A little bit of salt. I'll put it in like half a jar of the tomato achar, and I'll just let that cook. And it's delicious.

CHITRA: I love that. See, I was just talking to my brother and he was saying — because he knows that I put a lot of different recipes on our blog. He was just like, you've got to put my bean recipe on your blog. And I was just like, well, send it to me. But he does a similar thing where he just cooks beans and he just puts like the tomato jar and he's like, that's the recipe. 

SABRINA: Honestly, your products make cooking Indian food at home so easy. Truly it does.

CHITRA: I love that. 

SABRINA: You had a very interesting social media post about curry.

CHITRA: Oh, yes.

SABRINA: And how to use the word. And I know that your line now includes curry mustard, coconut curry, tomato curry. And so I'm very curious. I'd love for you to share with our listeners your take on the word curry and what role it plays in the genre of Indian food.

CHITRA: I think that a lot of people are really split on the word curry because it was a word that was coined by the British and also came about by a misunderstanding of probably what they were eating in South India, in particular. I grew up where my parents would actually use the word curry to describe something that they were making that had a mix of Indian spices, but didn't have a formal name. But I think the problem with curry is that when people start to use the word curry instead of the actual name that the dish was given, at that point, you're starting to kind of erase those regional dishes.  

And I think that's where we have a problem. But there's a lot of different places around the world that use the word curry, and it's actually, like, a very nostalgic word for some people. I mean, because it reminds them of the food that they grew up eating. I mean, in Japan, there's curry. In the Caribbean, there's curry. In South Africa, there's curry. And a lot of people when they talk about it they have great love for that word. 

And so I don't like to say that you shouldn't use the word curry, but I don't think that it should be synonymous with all Indian food, which is what I think happens. I mean, I can't tell you the number of times — you know, even when I've been demoing where people tell me that, 'oh, well, I don't like Indian food because I don't like curry.' And I think that was really the motivation for me to kind of put that post together because it's such a complex issue because some people don't want to use the word, but some people grew up with the word. And so I just wanted to educate people about where the word came from and how to navigate Indian dishes and encourage people to learn the words or learn the names of the dishes before they go to the C-word.

SABRINA: Right, right. That's funny. I mean, I honestly, I completely understand where people are coming from when they use the word curry because, just as you said, it is such a broad term and you know, there's Japanese curries and Caribbean curries and Indian curries. And in a way, I think that the word has come to represent a gravy-like dish that has spice, that has heat. That has heat and spice. Some people will try a curry and then just assume that all curries are similar. But the fact is that you know, the family of spices that we use is so vastly different to what you would find in a Japanese curry. And then with India, it does add a layer of complication because I want to say — what? Sixty-five percent of all of our food is gravy-based? 

CHITRA: Yeah. I mean, saucy in nature.  

SABRINA: Yeah. So I can definitely see where people sort of find it easy to be like, 'oh, curry.' But I also think it's important for people like yourself and brands like Brooklyn Delhi to help broaden the knowledge of Indian food, and to advance the understanding of it in Western society, for sure. So I love that you're doing that. And I also love how accessible you're making all of these flavors.

CHITRA: Yeah, I do a lot of work around the education piece, and I think that also comes from just being a recipe blogger before. It really is one of the parts of running the business that I enjoy most is coming up with the recipes for using the products and I really enjoy that part. 

SABRINA: Earlier in this episode, we spoke with Poppy O'Toole, who is a big TikTok superstar now because she has made cooking so accessible to so many people. Especially her love for potatoes, and she's really blown up. And I feel that there's a great similarity between you two because Brooklyn Delhi has — I mean, you name it. Vogue, Food Network, Food & Wine, Bon Appetit, Eater, New York Times. I mean, the list goes on and on — Epicurious. You guys have been featured everywhere. What does that feel like?

CHITRA: It definitely feels good because there is so many times where I've had doubts about if this business is viable if it was going to work. And I think that to get validation from food critics, I mean it is important for us. It also helps to spread the word to people that have not heard about the types of products that we sell. The main thing is trying to get as many people to try what we put out. That has been the largest hurdle. It's just, kind of, awareness in general.

SABRINA: Can you share some fun like achar tips if people want to try their hand at making some at home for this winter season?

CHITRA: Yes, definitely. I think winter season is great because that's actually citrus season. So, one of the most fun pickles that I love to make is a Meyer Lemon pickle. I actually have that recipe in my cookbook. It's pretty simple, but it just takes time. You start just with salt, turmeric, and then chopped lemons. Or you can also use limes. I like using thin-skinned citrus because it takes less time, basically. Because you're waiting for the skins to kind of break down so that they get kind of like that nice consistency and a Meyer lemon has a thinner skin and it has a bit of sweetness. And so that's one of my favorites to pickle. I kind of layer of the salt and turmeric with layers of the cut fruit. And then you basically just cap it and let it sit and do its thing. Maybe, every couple of days you come back and you may stir it around. You shake it. You have, like, a little relationship with your fermenting citrus. And then when it gets to the point where the lemons have kind of just broken down enough, then you can start adding the masala or the different spices. And what I love to do is take fenugreek seeds and roast them till they get kind of nutty and then grind it and then mix that with the chili powder and then have that mix together with the citrus. And then I usually have that sit for a little bit. And then at the very end, I will temper or heat oil with asafoetida and mustard seeds. And that's kind of like the final way to season the pickle. And it's basically ready to eat at that point. It's just so much fun to make a pickle because you've spent all this time that you, kind of, invest with it and then to enjoy it and to share it with other people, I think it's really special. 

SABRINA: Absolutely. You mentioned letting the pickle with the salt and everything just do its thing. How long would you recommend you leave that for?

CHITRA: So it could be like two weeks or so. It really depends on, like, the skin of the pickle. If you can, leave it for a month. That's great. I feel like the flavor really develops nicely. So you could probably get somewhere good in two weeks though if you were kind of wanting to get going with it.

SABRINA: Right. And do you pack it all in as tightly as possible or do you leave some room to breathe in the Mason jar? 

CHITRA: Oh, so this is a very important tip. Now you should try to get the juiciest, citrus that you can get. 

SABRINA: OK. 

CHITRA: Which should be available during the winter so what I do is, I layer it, but I gently kind of press it. And when you want to start the fermentation process, there should be enough lemon juice that covers till the very topmost lemon. So if your lemons are not juicy enough, then you have to add more juice, though. So that's an important part. They should be submerged.

SABRINA: OK, understood. So they're not packed dry, they should be packed wet. 

CHITRA: Right.

SABRINA: And then leave it anywhere from two weeks to a month and then start adding and layering in those spices.

CHITRA: Right. Yeah.

SABRINA: And what would you do with this lemon achar? How would you serve it and eat it at home? 

CHITRA: Oh gosh. The first thing I put it on rice and yogurt. I love putting it in salad dressings. Literally, you can just mix it with, like, some olive oil and it has so much flavor in it. You are pretty much good to go by cutting up the lime or lemon pickle and then mixing it with some olive oil and then putting it on some greens. It's so delicious, just, even like that.

SABRINA: Wow. That's a game-changer.

CHITRA: Yeah, I mean, I love making dressings, too. I use, like, all of our products, like our mango chutney our curry mustard, the achars. Like, we make salad dressings with them.

SABRINA: Well, this has been such a good experience chatting with you. And people should know that I also just put it on popcorn. I will take the garlic and dip chips into it. Everybody who listens knows that I love dipping chips into things. It's such a versatile line of product and I can't wait to see what else you're coming out with. And for our listeners, if you are curious about some more recipes, you can always check out Chitra's book, which is called Vibrant India: Fresh Vegetarian Recipes from Bangalore to Brooklyn. And if you just want to take it from me and be kind of lazy, basically select a protein and either marinade it or cook it in pretty much any Brooklyn Delhi sauce and you won't be sorry. Thank you, Chitra. 

CHITRA: Yes. Thanks for having me, Sabrina. 