GUY Yeah, $16 million in two weeks. And we're giving out $500 grants, and right now, we are currently processing 60,000 grants — 60,000 of these $500 grants. And Martie, this is where this is staggering, is we're receiving 40 requests a second on the website.

MARTIE Wow. I'm not shocked.

GUY So you've got tens of thousands of restaurants that are closed and you've got millions, 3 million, 4 million, 5 million employees without jobs. It's tough, really tough.

MARTIE Well, I've done three books that are around restaurants here in Alabama. And so I've visited all these restaurants over and over and over again, gotten to know the employees, gotten to know the owners, gotten to know the front of the house, the back of the house. And people don't realize how far-reaching this is.

Listen Guy, since you're there at the ranch and this podcast is called Homemade. What is your favorite thing to make there for the family, especially right now, when you're all at home together?

GUY I love to make them hungry. People always eat best when they're hungry. When I was a kid, my parents — we didn't have snacks when I was a kid in my house, it was like one bag of barely edible old tortilla chips, you know? We didn't have a box of crackers and chips and pretzels and all that kind of stuff.

My wife was a little bit more accustomed to that growing up in Rhode Island. So our kids now have, I mean, you'd think it's a mini-mart. So when we came time to eat, you ate hungry. And when you ate hungry, you ate what was on the table. You know? You learned to eat. And I think the reason I have such — as a kid and even now as an adult — but I had such a big palate was because I really had to, you know, you went to the table hungry. And I say it to the adult people all the time they're like, "What can I make that my kids will like?" OK, well, how about you quit feeding them snacks from 1:00 to 5:30, or when dinner is, and you put them at a dinner table and they're hungry? Ohhh, yeah.

MARTIE They will eat. They will eat. That is so true. My mom was like that. We didn't have snacks. We didn't have cokes. We didn't have anything sweet. And by golly, when she made dinner, you were starving.

GUY If you didn't like that vegetable, sop it up in that sauce or whatever. So anyhow, when I was nine years old, my parents were eating sushi. Whatever that is, I'll eat it. I'm hungry. And now, we, of course, we weren't starved. You can tell I've not missed a meal, but...

MARTIE Me neither. Me neither.

GUY So I love to make my family hungry. We talk about food all the time.

MARTIE That's why I think you're Southern. You know, I think really, you are Southern. You know why?

GUY My mom grew up in Georgia and in North Carolina. So I'm probably the only guy that you know in northern California that eats grits and ham steak and red-eye gravy. We are grit junkies around here. And no... I mean, listen, between you and me, I do have instant grits in the cupboard.

MARTIE Well, I would eat the instant grits in a pinch because you can doctor them up.

GUY Now, that's what I'm saying because sometimes, and this happens, when you get to stone-ground grits, that don't go to all the massive processing that the instant grits go through, sometimes you get a bug. You know?

MARTIE A bug?

GUY You never got a bug?

MARTIE No.

GUY You never got a bug in your grits?

MARTIE I never got a bug in my grits.

GUY So there sometimes bugs in your grits. If your grits sit up here for three months...

MARTIE Ohhh.

GUY You get a little bug that'll hatch in the grits. Because they haven't been over-processed. The instant grits have been. So we leave them there in a pinch that if you open the bag and you got a bug in your grit — and don't get me wrong, I have cooked the bug in the grits before. But if there is too many bugs in the grits and the grits are gray now? The family won't get — you can't pass that off.

MARTIE Oh, those are out.

GUY It's a fleck of pepper, if there's one, two, six bugs in the grits — but no otherwise. So I got to have the backup box of the instant grits. But even my 14 year old, Rider, will look at it and go, "Something wrong with the grits." You gotta have the toothsomeness, gotta have that creaminess, but with a little bite. It's gotta, you know.

MARTIE I couldn't agree more. That toothsomeness is where it's all about. Not just mush. That's what a lot of people think, "I don't eat mush." I'm like, "They're not mush to you if you eat the right kind." When you make grits at home, do you add cream? Do you add cheese? What do you do? Tell me a little bit about your grits 'cause this is a podcast about cooking.

GUY Goodbye. I'm not talking to you. If you're going to talk about putting cheese and cream in your grits.

MARTIE OK, just asking.

GUY I'm just kidding.

MARTIE Just butter then.

GUY I'm a purist. I'm a purist about my grits.

MARTIE OK.

GUY Little bit of salt, stir 'em, make sure they get nice and creamy. You gotta stir them. You gotta work them. You know? You got to break them down a little bit if you're really gonna get that creaminess about them. Grits. Salt. Ham steak. Bone-in. Cast iron pan. Cook the steak. Deglaze with black coffee.

MARTIE Red-eye gravy, y'all. If you don't know what that is...

GUY Red-eye gravy.

MARTIE Red-eye gravy.

GUY And that's it.

MARTIE That's the bomb.

GUY Don't mess with it.

MARTIE I was gonna need to say, I need to send you some biscuits to go with that 'cause I make a killer biscuit. I'll send you some.

GUY I imagine anything you make is gonna be tasty, and I'll be more than happy to receive those. Here's my address. It's 12...

MARTIE Flavor Town, USA.

GUY So I, when I eat grits — and my wife doesn't cook anything for me. She only makes a couple of things. But one thing she knows how to make is the way I like my grits. And on a Sunday morning, especially during football season, I'll be on the couch and she'll make the grits. And she brings them in a bowl so I can sit them on my fat belly. So I can sit like this and eat my grits. And I'll eat some grits with some — and I chop my ham up small and I put my gra — my red-eye gravy in there.

MARTIE Ohh.

GUY Then when I get a little tired, I reach over and I set it down. And then I wake up and I reach over in the bowl — you know, ceramic. You know, it's porcelain. So it's still warm. Bring it over. It's still warm, stir a little bit. Eat some more. Oh...

MARTIE Heaven.

GUY It is. My mouth is watering talking about it.

MARTIE You know, mine is, too. And I've got grits in there. I don't have any ham, though. So I may have to run down the road to the guy who's got the ham.

We'll have more with Guy Fieri after the break.

Welcome back to Homemade. I'm Martie Duncan, and I'm talking today with Guy Fieri.

Guy, tell me a little bit about what's coming up next for you. You just did the Tournament of Champions. I loved it. I love that — what was that machine?

GUY The randomizer.

MARTIE Yeah, I love that randomizer, man. Again, the evil. Evil. Evil. But so fun.

GUY Five minutes before we started that show I'm like, "Hey, we don't have a name for this big torture machine. What are we going to call it?" I said, "It's so random. It's the... the randomizer. That's what we'll call it." Everyone was like, "Hell, let's do it. Randomizer sounds good." But the randomizer is a bad thing. It just sort of — I don't put that stuff on there. I'm just the one that spins it.

MARTIE You like those whammies.

GUY I said we should put nice things up there. Like gravy, and biscuits and stuff like that.

MARTIE And two-hour cook times.

GUY Two hours is exactly what I normally say and stuff like that. And everybody else says, "You know, let's put lava on there. Lava and dirt."

MARTIE Yeah.

GUY Like that, and that's not what I'm saying to do. Of course you know I wouldn't do that to anybody.

MARTIE No. Never. Waffle iron. I thought Alex Guarnaschelli was going to have a stroke over the waffle iron.

GUY I was scared she wasn't gonna call me at Christmas. I still don't know I don't know if she's going to. That was some tough times. But you know what? Great show and...

MARTIE  Guy, you have so much energy. You're absolutely like the — I don't know how Laurie does it, but I imagine you don't sit still much. I mean, maybe when you get your big bowl of grits. But outside of that, I don't guess that you sit down very often.

GUY I think that's what she does. I think she tranquilizes me with those grits. She's like, "Here, honey. Here's some grits." Put in some tranquilizer. "Maybe now you'll sit down for a second." Yeah, I'm not a good — I'm not.  This quarantine has made me — I got like 80 projects going on right now. We're building a bridge. We're logging. We're cleaning brush. We're fighting the peacocks. Peacocks are taking over the patio. So we've got the peacock motion water-activated sprinklers trying to keep them from — I don't if you've ever seen peacocks...

MARTIE Oh, yes, I have.

GUY It's like labradors with wings. I mean, land mines.

MARTIE And they and they get on everything. Like If you have...

GUY Oh, they are the most invasive, but they're awesome and they're beautiful. But I got some pretty strict marching orders from Loretta when she left the ranch this week. She said, "You get those peacocks in line. Those peacocks need to go away." I'm like, wow.

MARTIE Everybody I know, that ever had them, got that order at some point in time. Hey, but I hear you got some goats, too.

GUY Oh, I have more goats than I've got brain cells. We got 400 plus goats. And the goats just kidded. So, we've got goats and baby goats. And we have 500-plus acres up here at the ranch. So what, the goats have a full-time job just keeping brush down and keeping poison oak down.

MARTIE I was about to say, I could borrow some because I got a poison ivy infestation. You sent me some down here to Alabama. I'll send you grits.

GUY You can have some. What kinda ranch do you got? I say I'm a poison oak rancher.

MARTIE Poison ivy rancher.

GUY I've got it in any shape or form you want it. And if you want to catch it, we'll let you catch it for free here.

MARTIE Good. Guy, I'm going to get back to cooking for a second. I remember you telling me that your mom was a really good cook, even though she would — she was kind of a very organic cook before it was popular. Did you get your fire for cooking from her? I know you had your first little business, and you made your beef jerky and everything. But did that come from your mom or?

GUY Everything, you made your beef jerky and everything.

MARTIE Oh, boy, stop.

GUY Both of my parents are really good cooks. My dad, I think, is a better cook than my mom. And my dad was the one that was always the most adventurous with it. We never had two holiday meals the same. Never. I remember one time he cooked the lamb leg with the hoof on.

MARTIE No!

GUY Oh yeah. That's my dad. My dad went to a chili cook-off contest at the fair one time. And everybody was there to do their chili cook-off. And my dad and his buddy rode their horses to the fairgrounds, all in their pack gear. You know, because they would do packing in the mountains. And they got there. They tied their horse up in the park where everybody is doing the chili cook-off and they built a big fire right in the middle of the lawn. Everybody was using camp stoves and stuff. They were drinking beer and throw a hubcap in the fire. And he takes out a side of bear meat...

MARTIE A hubcap. A hubcap.

GUY An old hubcap.

MARTIE Yeah.

GUY  Take the side of bear meat out and hang it from the tree. And they start cutting the bear meat off the tree and throw it onto the hubcap. Throw a tortilla on top of it. It's all in the middle of the fair in our county, at the Humboldt County Fair.

The judges come running over. "What are you? Where are you? What are you doing? You cannot start. The chili competition has not started yet. You cannot be cooking." My dad looks at the judge and says, "We ain't making no chili. We're making breakfast. You want a beer? You want a bear burrito?"

The judge just about passed out. So, they drank their beer and made their burrito and put in the tortilla and moved the hubcap out and cut all the rest of the bear meat up and made bear meat chili and got disqualified for several reasons. But the crowd went crazy. Everybody wanted to come and try the bear meat chili.

MARTIE Guy, this explains so much to me now about you.

GUY You come from crazy parents, you know, hippies — not dope-smoking hippies, but hippies — you get those kinds of people, and you'll learn.

MARTIE So is that where you got your love of music from, your parents, too? Because I know you, like me, you're a music fiend. You're a music guy.

GUY They're not as much. My mom really likes music. My mom was a great dancer. Not that kind of dancer. But my mom's a great dancer and loves music, loves Cajun Zydeco.

MARTIE Ooh, me too. I do, too.

GUY Loves it all. Love country, the whole thing. But I'm eclectic. I love all kinds of music. Anybody that really loves what they're doing, be it food, be it sports, be it art, be it music, whatever it is, I'm usually a fan. I'd just love to see people doing great at what they do.

MARTIE Hey, speaking of, I know you and Sammy Hagar got your tequila company. You're even wearing the shirt.

GUY My shameless plug for Santos Tequila.

MARTIE Yeah, I'd like to hear about it. What made y'all do that?

GUY So Santo, the saint, the saint of tequila. Sammy had the great tequila Cabo Wabo...

MARTIE I remember that.

GUY For years and sold it for $100 million.

MARTIE Does Sammy need a girlfriend or a wife?

GUY He's got one, and she's a tough cookie.

MARTIE Just kidding.

GUY She helps him.

MARTIE Just kidding.

GUY She keeps him in line. Sammy's a handful.

MARTIE I imagine.

GUY So Sammy sold Cabo Wabo, and I was a huge Cabo Wabo fan. Sold it in my restaurants. And he was telling me about selling it and I said, "Hey, if you ever do tequila again, I want in." OK. About five or six years went by and Sammy started Sammy's Beach Bar Rum. And I called him and said, "Hey Sam!" I said, "What's up, red rocker. Where's the — you made this Beach Bar Rum. I thought we were gonna be partners?" He goes, "You said tequila." I did say tequila.

MARTIE I did say tequila.

GUY And I said, "OK, well, call me when tequila happens." He said, "All right." So, about a year and a half ago, he called me one day and says, "Guy bones!" That's what he calls me, "Guy bones."

MARTIE Guy bones.

GUY He says, "You in?" I said, "What?" And he goes, "Are you in?" And I said, "Sammy, what?" He says, "Are you in?" And I said, "Yes, I'm in." And he goes, "Good, we're in the tequila business."

MARTIE Oh, how awesome.

GUY So, we started out with mezquila, which is mezcal and tequila mixed. And then now we just started our first — this last year we had our blanco out. And our blanco is — I mean, it's phenomenal. It's one of the best tequilas I've ever tried my life. I'm not saying it because it's me. We really got great people.

Sammy kept all of his contacts, and he knows so much about tequila, and he's just blowing it up. We got the band together. No pun intended. And we're getting ready to come out with our in añejo and our reposado, here in probably the third quarter after the summer. This pandemic is caused a little bit of a delay. But yeah, we're making it happen, sister.

MARTIE Do you remember when I first met you outside that hotel in Atlanta? And yet you say, "What's your name anyway?" And I said, "Martie." He said, "Wait a minute, Martie, and you know, parties? Did you change your name?" And you actually made me show you my ID because you didn't believe me. But, you know, what's huge with parties right now are Tequila bars, like tequila tasting.

GUY You know people — listen, I gotta be honest with you. When I was in college, I always thought I was allergic to tequila.

MARTIE I think everybody did.

GUY No, seriously. Every time I drank tequila, I broke out in handcuffs.

MARTIE I think everybody did. Everybody did.

GUY You ain't heard that one, have you?

MARTIE No, I haven't. I haven't. That was funny. I just did a big party for a 50th birthday last year down in Fairhope. And we did a big tequila bar, really fancy tequila bar, where we did these beautiful $300, $400 bottles of different kinds of tequila. And it was a hit of the party. They had all kinds of things going on at this thing.

GUY Well, you're gonna have to try Santo. I'm telling you, sister. I'll put it up against anybody. It's just fantastic. And we're doing it the right way. You know, we're not pushing it super hard. We're not selling out. It's Sammy and I are the owners, and we're just making great tequila. And we just got mentioned in the Robb Report of tequilas, which is a big step.

MARTIE That is.

GUY We're in almost every state in the country now. So, we're on our way. And we're just going to continue to make awesome tequila. That's the whole goal, awesome tequila.

MARTIE You still make the mezcal?

GUY We make the mezquila. Now mescal for a lot of people is like drinking in a smoky ashtray. You know? It's just really tough. But the nice thing about ours is that the mezquila, as we call it, is half mescal and half the silver tequila, the blanco. And it's got a little smokiness to it. It's got a little earthiness to it and just a clean finish. And I'm telling you, girl, you're gonna rock your house with this one. And yeah, a tequila bar is a nice way to pass the time or forget the time. I don't shoot my tequila. I don't put it on ice.

MARTIE Sip it.

GUY I don't drink it with lime. I don't drink with salt. I just enjoy it. And a matter of fact, I have a bottle of tequila that was just sent to me for our añejo and reposado. And this is the weekend — you're kicking off my weekend here in a second, sister —and it'll be time to taste.

MARTIE So Guy, one other question for our homemade cooks because, you know, Allrecipes has one of the largest food communities of cooks on the web. I mean, I think 60 million or something like that. What advice do you have for all the beginner cooks that are finding recipes to try on the Internet?

GUY The first time you rode a bike, did you just go 20 miles? Is that what you did the first time? The first time you went roller skating? Did you just — the first time you drew a picture of a bunny. The first time that you got in the pool and went swimming. All the times when the first time, second time, third time, we do something, it's not like instant success. And granted, you watch me and Martie and different chefs do something, you're like, how hard can it be?

MARTIE It's easy. Yeah, it's easy.

GUY You know? How hard could it be? And then you go ahead and do it. You're like, wait a second. It's like me playing hockey. Ice skating looks really cool, calm, and collected. Hold the stick. Hit the thing, like that's so difficult. You go to swing that, you get off balance and you fall on your ass in the ice. You know?

So cooking is a lot — I think cooking, more than anything, is timing. Timing is the key. When do you flip? When do you stir? How much time do you let that pan get hot? All of these factors of timing. So please, don't be so hard on yourself. Realize that not the first time that any great musician picked up a guitar and started to play a song, did it go to an album.

MARTIE Right.

GUY Cooking is timing, training, development, growth. I mean, there's just so many facets to it. But don't be so hard on yourself. People are so devastated. I suck. Listen, Martie will tell you. I'll tell you that time and persistence, get back after it. Try it again.

And here's another. This is one of my favorite tips. If you're going to make dinner for the family, don't make Bobby Flay's new recipe, Guy Fieri's new recipe, Rachael's recipe, and Martie Party's recipe. That's like trying to learn four new songs for your opening concert. Make a starch that you know. Make a vegetable that you're consistent with, and go and get adventurous with your protein or vice versa.

MARTIE Right.

GUY But don't make everything new because you're going to inevitably burn something, screw something up, and then you're going to get off-kilter. So, my best recommendation is, do yourself a favor and make sure that you have a little bit of experience in some of the things you're doing and then take one leap of faith.

MARTIE Do you know, I always tell people, "Listen, everybody loves that when other people cook for them. So just make one thing, you know, and then get the rest." You don't have to go crazy and make four recipes like you said. I think that's the great advice here.

Guy, you're so busy raising awareness and money for restaurant workers. What's going on with your own restaurants?

GUY You know, I don't know. We just closed 80 restaurants, you know? So, we're in the same situation everybody else is and having restaurants close and team members without jobs.

MARTIE Right.

GUY So we're just looking forward to getting this over with and getting back to doing what we do good, or do great. And a big thank you, by the way, to all of our team, all of our restaurants worldwide. Because so many great people working so hard to deliver the food and the style and the energy that we do. And I just feel terrible that this is what we're all faced with. But we're gonna get this solved and we're gonna solve it together. We're going to move on to bigger and better and learn a lot of lessons from this. But in the meantime, everybody stay safe, stay secure, and help one another and help your neighbor. And order out, get delivery, buy gift certificates for advanced dining experiences, and wish the best because our restaurant industry's been hit hard.

MARTIE People have no idea exactly how hard because most of these restaurants were not set up for any long-term savings or anything like that. Maybe a week or two and that'd be about it for the majority of them. So if you love places you've gone your whole life. Do what Guy said, support them. Get out, do whatever you can do to help them. And if there is a way — one more time Guy, the restaurant?

GUY Rerf.us — Restaurant Employee Relief Fund. And the folks at the National Restaurant Association Educational Foundation are standing by to take contributions, and we're also processing 24/7, processing the applications to get these $500 grants out.

And I got to tell you something. The messages that come in with the checks, the donations, and the emails come back from the people that receive them are enough to just make you cry. I mean, it's just unbelievable.

But you know, we're in a very difficult time as a country and we're rallying together as a country to support one another. And, you know, we've raised $16 million so far. My goal is 100 million.

MARTIE I don't think anybody but you could have done that, Guy. I don't think anybody but you could have done that.

GUY It's a collective effort of a lot of people. I just happened to be beating the loudest drum right now.

MARTIE Guy, I mean, Food Network Star to unlimited, what you've managed to accomplish from that one little television show has just been absolutely remarkable. And now you're not just a big superstar, you're changing lives. I can't even say thank you enough. We always close a show with this one. And I think I know the answer. What's your pleasure: to cook or to eat?

GUY Oh, to cook. I'm here at the ranch right now. I cook Thanksgiving here for 60 some people every year. And I sit down, and we all stand up and give our thanks. And my wife, it drives her nuts. I won't eat. And she's like, "Why?" And I said, "Because I just tasted that gravy for the 50th time I've had..."

MARTIE I know, I rarely eat what I cook because, for that same reason, I eaten it 50 times while I made it.

GUY I've had stuffing till my head's gonna fall off.

MARTIE Oh, you just gave it up. You're not Southern after all.

GUY What?

MARTIE You said stuffing. We say dressing. If you were really Southern, you'd have said dressing. We don't eat stuffing.

GUY What do you do to your potatoes?

MARTIE We mash 'em.

GUY No, you stuff potatoes. That's what I was talking about.

MARTIE No.

GUY I was talking about stuffed potatoes.

MARTIE OK.

GUY  You got a little redneck out of me. There's some Southern. But it's, no. Cooking for folks and it just why you do so well, Martie. And then I'm so happy for your show. And I'm really glad that you're sharing all this with people and props to the Allrecipes team because you guys got lightning in a bottle right there. This girl can talk about it. She can walk the talk. She can throw the party.

MARTIE I so appreciate you being here. You're my hero, and I think you know that, but you're just on a giant piece of my heart.

GUY Keep doing it, sister. Keep doing it and congratulations. And let me know when we're getting back together after this hot mess gets done. Thank you, girl.

MARTIE Thank you.

GUY Yeah, what a party.