KARL WORLEY So, I remember it from my grandmother, some of my earliest memories was her just watching me as my mom worked. She would have biscuits every day and she'd do drop biscuits for us in a little tiny skillet. We had this small table and at 10:00 every morning, she would cut a potato up into French fries and fry it on a fry daddy on that table with me just sitting there watching it. I'm thinking about four-year-old me watching hot oil boil.

MARTIE Oh, my word.

KARL So she would do that. And then on special occasions, so Christmas, Easter, anytime the family got together, she would do yeast-raised biscuits. So angel biscuits.

MARTIE Right.So your grandmother was the origin. She's the one that had the recipe. You learned from watching and decided, what the heck, let's start a food truck. Let's build an empire with that biscuit recipe.

MARTIE How did you get from watching your grandmother make biscuits to a biscuit empire?

KAR Oh, my gosh. A lot of luck or God or whatever you believe in. My wife and I both went to culinary school as adults, and I had this bright idea - this was before Hattie B's - I had this bright idea to do hot chicken and bring hot chicken to the masses. And my wife told me I was an idiot. That would never work. And so I often remind her how much of a visionary I am. But she said I would do biscuits and then you could do hot chicken on biscuits. You could do a lot of stuff. I think she was the true visionary.

We wanted to write a business plan and so we started looking for people. One of those people was,working for, a guy named Jason McConnell in Franklin, Tennessee, who owns a bunch of restaurants down there. And I said, "Hey, you think Jason would meet with me? I need some help writing this business plan. Just real world experience." He did. He promised me thirty minutes. I left two hours later with keys to his food truck to borrow, space in one of his restaurants to use as a commissary and a mentor. And we started 30 bucks in our pocket, a borrowed food truck and and a dream. And off we went.

MARTIE And now you rule the biscuit world.

KARL I don't know about that.

MARTIE All right. Well, Biscuit Love is such an appropriate name for this because when you bite into one of those, it tastes like and feels like a grandma made that biscuit. Are you making them all by hand?

KARL We're making them all by hand and so and I, uh...

MARTIE I don't even know how that's possible with all those people. Wow.

KARL In a pre-Covid world, the Gulch location would do about 2000 on a Saturday and 2000 on a Sunday. So it takes a team. It takes an army of biscuit makers. So.

MARTIE And this is what you call your family reserve biscuits. This is the recipe that you grew up with. That's what you're making every day. You have a lot of things on the menu beside the biscuits. But what I want to know is about this drop biscuits or these patted biscuits. Walk us through the technique really quick. Once you get the ingredients assembled in the bowl, how does it work?

KARL Sure. So dry ingredients go in, mix those around. You put your wet ingredients in. It's actually buttermilk and heavy cream. The dough is so wet it almost looks like cottage cheese. And you'll take just a spoon and scoop a scoop up, drop it in some all-purpose flour. I call it patty cake. Patty cake it around, and then drop it in - at home we drop it in a cast iron skillet, in the restaurant, they're doing large volume when those are on the menu. And so we do them in a few different ways when they come on the menu. So.

MARTIE It still has a crispy bottom. 

KARL Mhmm. 

MARTIE The top is still brown, but the middle is definitely fluffier, not layered like a lot of biscuits are today. These are a fluffy middle. I say biscuits fall in two categories. Are you flaky layers or are you fluffy middle? And yours I think are definitely fluffy middle. 

KARL Yes. A lot of times in the restaurant we'll do different kinds of cakes and different things in it. So we had it on the menu as a hummingbird cake, or we'd mix all the hummingbird cake ingredients in the middle of it and serve it with cream cheese icing. And so it's able to do fun stuff with it. One of my goals is to get people to make biscuits, and so it's pretty foolproof to make. 

MARTIE So for all the people who can't get to Nashville, then you want to encourage them to make biscuits at home. I love your quote that I pulled from somewhere. It says, "You're making biscuits and that brings people around the table. That's what we're missing these days." I love that quote.

KARL I think so, even more so this past year. It's one of the things that has brought us a lot of joy in a world where you can't get together is pulling people around the table. And one of the things I love about food is when you have food in your mouth, you shut up and you listen. The more listening we can do, the better.

MARTIE I don't doubt that one bit. Then how do we get it from the cottage cheese to something that bakes? How do you do that part? That's what you call the patty cake part?

KARL Yeah. So we'll have a second bowl with a little bit of just all purpose flour in it. When you scoop it up and then throw it in that all-purpose flour, it will hold together. And then you kind of pattycake to shake the excess flour off. And then at home we'll pack them tight in a cast iron skillet that's been buttered. 

MARTIE So side to side in the cast iron skillet, they touch.

KARL Yes. Oh, yeah.

MARTIE And that helps them rise up too, I believe.

KARL They're going to move, whether it's out or up is up to you.

MARTIE What is the big secret? There's got to be a secret that you'll share with us about these biscuits. How in the world do you make them taste so good? Is it the biscuit love or is there another secret that we need to know about?

KARL Don't work them too much. Some people worry about getting all the flour incorporated and everything and, and versus just barely working them. Working them as less as possible. And I think if you're cooking for people, you typically have love in your heart. And I think that that matters. So.

MARTIE It definitely matters. There's no doubt about it. So now that we've got our biscuits in the oven, they're baking away, what is your favorite go-to, your personal favorite go-to to stick in the middle of that thing? Are you butter, jelly, jam, ham, sausage? What's your favorite thing to put inside one of those Biscuit Love biscuits?

KARL I love good jam, and it's so easy to make. Put a little sugar, a little whatever fruit and cook it down. But my go to, and my childhood, is soft butter whipped about 50-50 with sorghum.

When we go on tour and we were able to go do different events, sometimes I'll take that and just surprise people and not tell them what it is.

MARTIE Right.

KARL And the butter kind of cuts that sulphury part out of the sorghum when you mix it with butter.

MARTIE So is that something your grandmother did?

KARL Yeah, she always had sorghum and just soft butter. And so you take a little bit of soft butter and sop it up with the biscuit and kind of move it around, mixing it together.

MARTIE And what's the number one go-to at Biscuit Love? What do customers love to put in the middle of their biscuit?

KARL The number one thing is our East Nasty by far, which is fried chicken, Cheddar cheese, and then sausage gravy. 

MARTIE Oh, wow. So...

KARL Just like Mom used to make.

MARTIE Oh, no. My mom did not make that. No.

KARL Mine didn't either. 

MARTIE No, no, no. My mom did not. Now we got sausage in the middle of the biscuit or ham or bacon. 

KARL Yeah.

MARTIE But no. No chicken. That sounds delicious. So it's called the East Nasty.

KARL The East Nasty. Yeah. 

MARTIE OK, and so tell us what that is again. It's one of the Biscuit Love biscuits. 

KARL Yup. Regular fried chicken, Cheddar cheese, and then sausage gravy. 

MARTIE Sausage gravy, which is one of the favorite things on the planet. If y'all have never had sausage gravy, you're not living. All right. So can you walk us through that really quick, too? What does that taste like? And y'all, I mean, I am assuming y'all go through a lot of sausage gravy at Biscuit Love. 

KARL We, we use a local farmer and she sees, uh, all of our pork comes from her and we use about three to four pigs a week just for the sausage that goes into the gravy. And so we start with her pork, which is, is key for us, a good fatty pork. And some White Lily and really good heavy, heavy milk.

We use a local company, and so when you open the top, there's still that, that layer of fat on top, which you want. It kind of plays off of the, the heaviness of the gravy and the fried chicken. But it's not too - I don't think it's too heavy. But it is soul satisfying. It's everything you want breakfast to be.

MARTIE It sounds like the perfect thing to have on a Saturday morning in Nashville after you've been out having some fun on Broadway. You know, it sounds like the perfect stop to cure everything that ails you from the night before. For sure. Well, I'm so looking forward for this pandemic to be over so we can get back to events and back to doing things out on the road and having fun and gathering together. Tell me about how it's been for y'all at the restaurant with the pandemic and where you are now.

KARL It's been good. I'm thankful that we have really smart women running the company and we're going to come out of this. And it's allowed us to, to challenge ourselves and do different things. One of my favorite things is, we fell in love with Lisa Marie White many years ago in New Orleans. And...

MARTIE Love her. I love her.

KARL Last January, she came on board at Biscuit Love. I stepped back as the chef and she stepped in as the chef of Biscuit Love. And, in my opinion, she makes some of the best biscuits on the planet. 

MARTIE Without a doubt she does.

KARL She tweaked our biscuits. They're better than ever. She's tweaked the menu and it's a hundred times better than I could do. And it's beautiful to see this child that Sarah and I created-somebody else taking it and, and teaching it and making it, pushing it further. And so I think coming out of it, I'm optimistic that people will be excited to gather. And we're going to be a stronger company and have stronger people. We've been able to employ people through this. There was a few weeks where we had to lay everybody off, but we've been blessed to be able to have them and still have all of the things that we think are important. We have our staff-care program still, our therapists on staff, and we've been able to do that through the pandemic, which I see as a great celebration.

MARTIE It seems to me like love is a big part of your name for a big reason. 

KARL It is.

MARTIE It seems to me that that's a lot to do with your corporate philosophy and the way that you do business, even down to working with local people, who you can make a giant impact on some of these farmers' and providers' lives, too. So it seems to me like you are mixing up a lot of things just right in Nashville.

Let's show some love to the Biscuit Love folks when you're up in Nashville, when we get out on the road, we start moving around and traveling again, let's show these folks some love. Karl, best to you and to Sarah and to the whole Biscuit Love team. Thank you for sharing your family legacy, your tradition of biscuits with us, and walking us through some of your secrets for wonderful biscuits. 

KARL Thank you. Thank you for letting me be a part. I appreciate it.