ANNE BURRELL My mom was a great cook, and we always had a big garden out in the backyard. So she'd be like, "Go out and pick lettuce or tomatoes or dig up potatoes for dinner." I loved doing that. I loved being involved in the garden. I mean, I didn't like to weed it, but I liked to plant it, and I liked to harvest and then use all the stuff. That was always exciting.

My mom was an amazing cook, so she was very inspirational to me. But I also watched, and my mom swears that it's because of this, because of Julia Child that — like, I went to my mom when I was three, and I was like, "Mom, I have a friend named Julie." She said, "You do? Who?" And I was like, "Julie Child. I watch her every day." My mom really swears that it's Julia. But I swear, it's my mom. My mom was an amazing cook.

On a previous episode of Homemade, Iron Chef Alex Guarnaschelli talked with me about how Julia paved the way for her and other female chefs around the world.

ALEX GUARNASCHELLI  I spent 10 years of my life cooking French food, which is sort of what my mom always did. My mom would watch Julia Child, write everything down, go to the store, buy the ingredients, and make the dish. You know, like out of a movie?

MARTIE Right. 

ALEX I feel like it's a Julie and Julia movie. She would do that.

MARTIE Listen, every single chef, I mean almost without fail, that I've had on this podcast has said something about how Julia Child influenced their cooking or their mom's cooking or how they came to food was from that. Wouldn't she just be blown away to know that she had had that kind of lasting influence on all of us?

ALEX Oh, yeah. Absolutely. 

MARTIE And now you're doing that for a whole new generation, Alex. I don't know if you realize that, but I'm sure you do, to some degree. But through your work on Food Network and your teaching and what you've done with your TV shows and your books. You're inspiring a whole new generation. And the fact that you're an Iron Chef helps a lot of young girls see what's possible.

ALEX I mean, thank you. I think that's really the added layer of Julia Child is when she turns around and empowers so many women. Because what she did was so extraordinary and unusual and she was just sort of driven by an idea. And she knew what her idea was and it wasn't going to be any other way. I don't know. I guess I'm driven by an idea in a similar fashion. I'm not saying I'm Julia Child. Don't get me wrong.

MARTIE I know what you're saying. 

ALEX Yeah, I definitely knew I wanted to be an Iron Chef. I've always known that I wanted to cook. And I've just sort of never let go of those simple ideas.

MARTIE Next up, baker and James Beard Award-winning cookbook author Dorie Greenspan about Julia's notorious frugality and her method for saving every bit of an ingredient. 

I laughed when I saw you on that Martha Stewart show where you were saying, when you were working with Julia, if you'd left one little drop of anything, she would go back and get it and put it in the bowl. I think that's a funny story, will you tell about that? 

DORIE GREENSPAN Well, so, I worked with Julia Child, the wonderful, fabulous treasure. When I worked with Julia... I love this. When I worked with Julia...

MARTIE I know, I can't even believe you get to say that. "When I worked with Julia..."

DORIE I still can't I still can't. So, it was for the series that she did called "Baking with Julia." And it was a PBS show. There were 26 episodes. So there were 26 different bread bakers and pastry chefs. And they came to Julia's house in Cambridge and baked with her in her kitchen.

And Julia, ah, she was so wonderful. She was so attentive. She would follow everything very carefully. She always knew the right question to ask. She always knew before you as a viewer could think, "Now, why did they warm that egg?" Julia would ask, "Why did you warm that egg?" She was just, she was so great. So the chefs would be working, and inevitably, they would just take the mixing bowl, scrape the batter into a pan and then take the bowl, you know, and just behind them was the sink. And they would just put it in the sink. And Julia would turn, walk to the sink, inspect the bowl, and if there was even a tablespoon of batter left, she'd grab the spatula and put it back.

And I think about that all the time. Well, I think about her for a trillion reasons. But every time I use my hands as I'm doing something, which I do all the time, I think they're the best kitchen tool we have, I think of Julia and I think, I'm using my impeccably clean hands to mix with. And I look at the bowl and I scrape it, and I think of Julia scraping the bowl. 

MARTIE What an amazing reflection and memory that that is, to be able to say, "I did that, and it influences me every day." She really influenced our whole country and still does. 

DORIE I think she changed our culinary world.

MARTIE I think she did. And I watched that Julia, Julie movie a million times, and I have in my head, you know, what that must have been like going through the process of creating that amazing book that has really become the standard for French cooking in America. And all these years later, wouldn't she be so thrilled to know that we're still talking about her, she's still just as relevant. It's really remarkable. 

DORIE I want to suggest a book that I just loved it so much and I think that you would as well and our listeners. It's called As Always, Julia. And it's a book of letters that Julia wrote to Avis DeVoto, who was the woman who helped to get Mastering the Art of French Cooking published in America. And the letters are both charming and touching. And you really get a sense of the work that Julia did. That she's in France writing these letters, and Avis is in Cambridge. And you get a sense of how hard it was to develop those recipes, how concerned Julia was about their being exactly accurate, how they would work for Americans. When I finished that book, I was so sad because I missed the company of two intelligent, curious, generous women.

MARTIE Stay tuned for more stories and lessons from Julia, with Jacques and Claudine Pépin, Sara Moulton, and Chef Scott Peacock. We'll be right back after the break.

Welcome back to Homemade. Legendary chef Jacques Pépin hosted several television programs with Julia over the years, so I definitely wanted to ask him and his daughter, Claudine, about their decades-long relationship with Julia and their favorite memories of her.

So many of the guests that I've had on this program, on this Homemade podcast, have talked about the influences of Julia on them growing up, especially the female chefs. And many of them have said that that was their first initiation into cooking, is watching Julia and watching you on television. And it inspired them to become chefs.

JACQUES PEPIN Sorry if I ruined your life. 

MARTIE What do you think all these years later, she would think about that fact that she is still influencing the next generations of chefs, up and coming, especially female chefs?

CLAUDINE PEPIN I think she would be very happy. 

JACQUES I think she would be, because, you know, Julia — I met her in 1960. When I started doing a show with her, she always told me, "You're too serious." You know, "This is television. You have to smile." And it's true. You're absolutely right to say that you have to show people that cooking is fun. But, you know, even for that, at the end of the show, she would say, "OK, what did we teach them today?" There was always a teaching element, which was important.

MARTIE I wondered which one of you brought the campy, fun, quirky, like coming out with a fire extinguisher or something like that. Was that you or was that her?

JACQUES That was the bottle of wine that did that.

MARTIE After a bottle of wine. I love the fact that you always ended your show with a nice glass of wine or a drink and a toast.

JACQUES Yeah, we always did. Except when we had Jess Jackson, because the show was sponsored by Kendall Jackson. He was a friend of mine. They flew from California to come to our house and look at one of the shows to take us out for dinner after. So on that day, I cook whatever we cooked that day, we drank wine and that day I told Julia, "Well, what do you want? You want a merlot with that? Or a bit of caviar?" And she said, "I want a beer." She wanted a beer because the sponsor who does wine was here. So that was Julia. Yeah. 

MARTIE Well, so tell me your favorite Julia story. There's a million of them. I know it would be hard to pick one. And I want both of you to share with us your favorite story of Julia Child.

CLAUDINE I don't know if I could actually pick a favorite story of Julia. I think one thing that I remember having happened was, we were all in Aspen at Food & Wine, which my dad and Julia and I would go to. And my dad and I would do demonstrations or my dad and Julia and it was a whole big thing. And we were at a restaurant that had just opened. And so it was pretty new and they were working out the kinks and so on. And this sprinkler system exploded in the kitchen. 

JACQUES Oh yeah, I remember.

CLAUDINE Right before we were going to get our main course and everything got soaked. But we had a ton of appetizers on the table. Now, the chef was just humiliated, distraught. Just because, I mean, a whole kitchen soaked. And my dad and Julia, in particular, said, "Just come sit down with us, have a glass of wine. We have bread, we have cheese, we have pate, we have all the stuff you sent. We have more than enough food. Nobody's gonna die of starvation. Open up a bottle of wine."

CLAUDINE And this kid was so — like, he was like shaken. But he was so relieved. Because all she said to him, she was like, "If your kitchen had not exploded like this, you would not be able to sit with us at the table." Like she had a way of just making you feel good about whatever disaster happened.

MARTIE That is a wonderful story.

JACQUES But you know, I knew Julia before I knew Claudine. Of course, Claudine wasn't born. So since Claudine was born, she knew Julia and imitates her voice. So I remember, my wife, Gloria, and I eating at the table. And Claudine would come, and imitate Julia. So I remember one time the telephone rang and Gloria picked it up. And she said, "OK Claudine, stop it. We're eating. What do you want? " And all of a sudden she's "No, no, I'm sorry, Julia. No I'm sorry, I'll get him right away." So her imitation was very good. 

MARTIE All right, Claudine. You're gonna have to do it for us. Let's hear it.

CLAUDINE Oh. I have to stand up. 

MARTIE OK, stand up. Let's hear it.

CLAUDINE So, yeah, so she would call and she would say, "Hello, this is Julia Child. Is Jacques there please?" And it was hysterical because she would actually tell you who she was because...

MARTIE Like you wouldn't know. Like you wouldn't know. 

CLAUDINE But yeah, that's the only that's the only imitation I can do.

MARTIE I reached out to one of the original stars of the Food Network, Sara Moulton. We'll have a full episode with Sara later this season, but for now, here's an exclusive clip where Sara details how she got hired by Julia, and what one could expect for a dinner party at Julia's home.

Your first TV experience was with Julia. How do you make it there? I mean, how does that even happen?

SARA MOULTON Well, I have I've had lots of good luck in my life, right place, right time kind of thing. I was in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1978. While I was there, starting in '77, right when I graduated from cooking school, and in '78, I was the chef manager of a catering operation in Cambridge. And I hated catering. But it was a stepping stone to a restaurant job. And we were peeling a million hard-boiled eggs, me and one of my workers. And we started talking about Julia, because Julia didn't boil her eggs. She had this whole method, which is much better than boiling eggs to get hard-cooked eggs.

And this young lady said, "Oh, you know, I'm a volunteer on her show." I was like, "Really?" And so I said, "Do you think Julia could take another volunteer?" And she said, "Well, yeah, let me ask her." And so she came in the next day and said, "I told Julia all about you and she wants to hire you."

MARTIE Wow.

SARA So I went down to the corner payphone called up Julia. Julia got right on the phone. She was listed. And the first question she asked me was, "Oh, dearie, do you food style?" I'd never done it professionally in 1978. It wasn't, you know, the deal that it is — you don't get the training you do now. So, I thought real long and hard. And I lied. And I said, yes, I was really good. So I got the job. Sometimes I tell that story to young people who I might be mentoring that sometimes you have to take a leap. You have to, you know? Do that. Yeah.

MARTIE Yes. "Have you done it?" "Yes. Lots of times." And then figure it out. Yeah. You'll get it. So I want to go back to those eggs for a minute. So I don't guess I knew this. I know a lot about Julia. But what was the secret to the eggs? They — she shouldn't boil them? Did you bake them?

SARA No. The way Julia did it was she'd put her eggs in cold — oh, she did weird things too like Julie always did. She would prick them with a little pin so that they didn't — I don't remember quite what the logic was. But the important part, the real nugget was, she put the eggs in cold water, bring them up to a boil, just to a boil, take them off the heat and cover them and give them, say, 14 minutes, without the boiling. And then immediately drain them and put them in the ice water. Now what this did is, if you don't boil them, the whites are much more tender. And B, if you get them right into ice water, you cool them down very fast. You don't get that green line between the yolk and the white. 

MARTIE Speaking of Julia and your experience with her, is there a favorite story?

SARA Oh, gosh. Well, let me just say a couple things. First of all, she was one of the funniest people I ever met, hands down. Really, sincerely funny, because she was so smart and so refreshingly honest. She would just call it for what it was. And she would take you off guard. You just — she was hysterical.

Two things. One is that she wasn't pretentious, even though one would think she was because she made all these fancy dishes. You know, you'd watch her and she do all this elaborate stuff, and then tell you how easy it was. And it wasn't, didn't look remotely easy.

MARTIE Right.

SARA But at any rate, I love that about her. She threw dinner parties. We would go over to her house and cook together. And in the middle of the whole thing, she would say, "Aren't we having so much fun?" But if she didn't feel like making a fancy hors d'oeuvre, she always had a stash of Pepperidge Farm goldfish in the cupboard. And that's what she would serve. And she sincerely loved them!

The other thing at dinner parties was at the end when we were all done, and everybody was finished with their dessert. She'd have us all retire to the living room, and she'd show that Dan Akroyd Saturday Night Live parody of herself! She loved it.

MARTIE Oh, that's hysterical. I didn't know she'd ever seen it. Oh, I love that. So, I'm gonna close my eyes. And I want you to tell me what it's like being a guest at Julia's house for a dinner party. I mean, what would it have felt like?

SARA You would arrive, and Paul Child would get you some sort of wonderful drink or perhaps a bit of champagne, chilled champagne. And then if we had made hors d'oeuvres that would be passed, and everybody would hang out in the kitchen for a while, because that was the place. And then the table, we would have set the table beautifully with napkins and flatware and glasses and flowers. And then we'd sit down and have a fantastic conversation, you know?

Or, or in the summer, she had a little teeny, weeny backyard. In recent history, my dad who just passed away two years ago, lived in Cambridge, and I would walk around when I was visiting because I think Cambridge is so pretty. And I made a point of going back to her house. And it was so much smaller than I remembered it. It was tall. But in terms of the front lawn and back lawn, I thought they were, you know, tremendous. And they weren't, I mean, I didn't exactly snoop around in the back. But from where I was, I could see that it was pretty small.

But sometimes we'd go back and have an aperitif in the backyard, so that was fun, too. But it was very convivial. I mean, the thing that Julia understood, besides teaching people about how to make French cuisine is how to enjoy life and culture the way the French did, and how to dine. It's not just about feeding yourself. It's about everything else that goes with that. 

MARTIE It's the experience. It's the people and, and even to the china, the serving pieces, all of that plays a big part in it. So I'm there, I get my aperitif. What might her favorite? What was her go-to, her favorite dinner party dish? Was it the famous beef bourguignon or what was it?

SARA You know, it changed according to who the guest was. So if it was a French friend, it would be a French meal. Otherwise, it was whatever she was in the mood for. I remember one time, I think it was her 80th birthday party, and there was like 12 of us there, celebrating and cooking.

And I remember getting into an argument with Jeffrey Steingarten, and now I agree with him, but back then I didn't. For people who don't know who he is, he's a great writer. He used to write a regular column for Vogue, and he's very entertaining and very thoughtful. He believed that you should season the steak before you cook it. And I said, "Absolutely not. You should season the steak after you cook it because you're going to make it sweat." Well, now I know that he's 100 percent right. And as a matter of fact, it'd be better if we seasoned it a whole hour ahead of time, you know? So, it's funny how things change. But it's something as simple — we probably did a compound butter to go with it, you know, with basil and shallots and garlic, maybe. And, you know, Julia tended towards the French.

MARTIE But sounds like for these kinds of events that she would try to keep it a little bit more simple.

SARA Yeah.

MARTIE Probably. So she could have some fun at her own party.

SARA Right. I mean, one of the things about Julia that was amazing is, because of course everybody wanted to talk to her about food 24-seven.

MARTIE Right.

SARA And I'm sure most of us wanted to impress her with our deep knowledge and how cool we were in the culinary department. But really, she got tired of that. I mean, she, she wanted to talk about movies. She wanted to talk about culture. She wanted to talk about politics. She was a very lively individual.

MARTIE OK, here's the big question. Was she really in the CIA or not? Well did she ever tell you the truth?

SARA Well, no, here's the thing. Here's my understanding. So, she was part of — you're right, the precursor to the CIA, which was the OSS. And her job technically was as a secretary. And Paul's job was as a map maker. So they worked together. So you know, what can I tell ya? 

MARTIE Yeah. OK, I get it. 

SARA But I don't I don't see her with sunglasses, you know, sort of sneaking around the periphery.

MARTIE With a Dossier under her arm.

SARA No, I think, you know, she'd stick out like a sore thumb. She was she was 6'3". I mean, you know, so forget about it.

MARTIE Well, I feel like there must have been a couple of really great tips that she gave you early on on those first weeks that you were there. Can you recall, like, something that she taught you that has stuck with you that you continue to teach now?

SARA Oh, my God, there are so many. I will say one of the biggest ones. And it's the one that I taught Rachael Ray. And Rachael would agree, which is that when you do TV, you must smile.

MARTIE True, true, true. 

SARA Because. nobody even needs to explain the reason, but if you think about it, when you smile, it's sort of like you're selling your point that much better. It's like, "Yes, you too, should make coq au vin."

MARTIE And it's easy because I'm smiling.

SARA Yes. And you must believe me. So, I would say that's the biggie. But there were many others as a home cook. And this is one I tried to share with everybody, is: never apologize, never explain. So when you have people over for dinner, don't tell them everything you did wrong. They're so glad that you made dinner and they didn't. So don't ruin it for them by saying, "Oh, it needed more salt. I should have reduced it. I should have added acid." You know, don't do that.

MARTIE Yes, I have the worst habit of doing that.

SARA And we all do. Me too!

MARTIE I am going to take that and put it in my pocket and keep it because I'm going to stop doing that.

SARA We have one of those refrigerators you can't really put magnets on the front. We have a tiny little square on the side where you can put magnets. My niece had a magnet about this big made with Julia Child on it saying, "Never apologize, never explain." So it's right there anytime I'm making dinner for guests. So I can try to control myself.

MARTIE Finally today, I'm joined by James Beard Award-winning chef, cookbook author, and biscuit king Scott Peacock who has some wonderful memories of Julia to share.

Chef, I know, you have had a lot of influences in your life in your career, but one of them is Julia Child. Can you tell me about that?

SCOTT PEACOCK She was extremely important, remains important. As a child, she was a portal through the television into another world of cooking. It was very different cooking than what I was familiar with. It was very exotic. She was different than anyone I'd ever seen or heard before. Her kitchen was different, her pots and pans, everything. It was very inviting. And the first cookbook I ever got was a paperback version of one of her from one of her shows. It wasn't the Mastering the Art of French Cooking. I didn't get those until I was in college.

Yeah, and the first quote-unquote fancy recipe I ever made was Julia Child's chocolate mousse, which took me hours and hours to make, but was very successful. She always gave you everything you needed to know how to make something and a thousand substitutions, in case you lived in Hartford, Alabama, in the 1970s and didn't have access to, you know, fancy ingredients.

And then I was very lucky to meet her a few times and to cook for her a couple of times. And I do not remember the book she was promoting at the time but Carolyn O'Neill in Atlanta, who had been the food reporter at CNN for many years, invited me to come over and asked if I would make scones for her from Carolyn's mother's recipe. And I did and we had a pleasant visit. And then it turned out during the breakfast that she was going to be in town for a couple of days. And she asked if I would fry chicken for her. And I did, and Ms. Lewis was living in Atlanta by then and knew Julia. And I had been doing a lot of hearth cooking at the Atlanta History Center in the Tullie Smith farm kitchen, the hearth kitchen.

And so in very short order, put together and cooked a meal of fried chicken and several other things and baked a pound cake in the hearth. We had biscuits, and had this wonderful outdoor luncheon with Julia and her niece and some people from the History Center. And of course, Ms. Lewis, underneath the muscadine arbor. It was — it was picturesque.

And then, I was extraordinarily lucky to see her just a few weeks before she died, actually. And I was in Montecito in Santa Barbara for something and ended up being invited to dinner at the very last minute, and Julia was going to be there. And we were seated next to each other and had an absolutely delightful and fascinating evening that I cherish very, very much.

MARTIE And two legends that were so important to you, Ms. Lewis and Julia, and you had dinner with the two of them together, and then had dinner with Julia right before she passed away. Well, that's amazing. That is amazing.

SCOTT I pinch myself. 

MARTIE I bet you do. Ima pinch you when I see you. Just make sure. I mean, you have to think about it. Sometimes it's like, "Did that really happen? Or did I make that up?"

Do you think she would be shocked at the influence that she has had on so many of our great cooks today or great chefs and how important she still is? Do you think she'd be surprised by that?

SCOTT That's a good question. I don't really feel like I knew her well enough to speak to that. But I, you know, remember when she was on the cover of Time magazine, and when they sent the first — I don't even know what you call it — it wasn't a time capsule. But remember when they were sending, like, space missions out to other galaxies? And they included, in the first one, an episode of one of her television shows. Because that's how significant and iconic she had become in American culture?

And I do think she'd lived long enough to see that people like, for example, Martha Stewart, and myself — I'm sure she heard an awful lot that I learned to cook from watching you or from reading your books. She is definitely having a resurgence because not that long after she had died, I remember I was asked to speak at Emory University in Decatur there, where I lived for so long. And it was a group of college students. And I made a Julia Child reference, and they didn't know who I was talking about. And I couldn't believe that. And I found it shocking and disturbing. And I'm grateful that that moment has passed and that now, Julia has risen again in the American consciousness, in the culinary consciousness.

MARTIE Thank you to all of our guests today, and to you for joining me on our special episode dedicated to Julia Child. And, as Julia used to say, "Bon appetit!"