Alright, let's get to it, I'm thrilled to welcome Zac Posen to Homemade. Welcome Zac! 

ZAC: Thank you for having me. I'm so honored to be here.

MARTIE: Well, we're thrilled to have you. And I guess right off the bat, I want to say there are some similarities between — I'm a cook myself.

ZAC: Yeah.

MARTIE: I was in the wedding business for many, many years and the fashion industry for many years. But there are some similarities between cooking and fashion, finding just that right thing, trying something again and again and again until you get it right.

ZAC: Creative expression to start with, right? Emotion, technique...

MARTIE: Absolutely. 

ZAC: ...Form, texture.

MARTIE: Yes. All of that. 

ZAC: Flavor. It's all there.

MARTIE: Yeah. It's all there. But let me make sure I understand this. You started your life in the kitchen. Well, you started your life as a designer very, very young, too.

ZAC: Yeah.

MARTIE: You're a prodigy. Very young. But you started cooking when you were just a kid, too.

ZAC: I did. Yeah. Saturday was like baking time with my mom, and my dad cooked every day of the week.

MARTIE: Right.

ZAC: Let's start there. My dad's a painter, he's an artist and I grew up in Soho, New York, and I'm a real, like, downtown loft kid. And, my mom was a professional woman. So she worked. But it was really important to my father and the family that we all ate together, me, my sister, my mom and dad. And growing up in downtown New York, you get to shop in Chinatown. You get to shop in Little Italy.

MARTIE: Right. 

ZAC: And my parents also met in Italy. 

MARTIE: I read that. That's pretty fascinating. In the '60s, right? 

ZAC: Yeah. In the '60s. And I think just their generation was really a generation of like a food culture explosion. You know, it was a really big part of my life. So I watched my dad cook. But weekends were reserved for, like, baking and having time with my mom. 

MARTIE: Now, what would you and your mom make on a Saturday in the kitchen?

ZAC: Oh, on Saturday in the kitchen it would either be something, like, traditional, like something like a family recipe. I had a great aunt, Aunt Jenny, who had a handwritten recipe for butterscotch cookies with like almonds in it. They're like an icebox cookie.

MARTIE: I'll be needing that. I will be needing that.

ZAC: I put it in the cookbook and it's a great recipe. They're delicious. It's like a butterscotchy flavor and you cut them real thin. They're like thin crisp little cookies. They kind of crunch and melt away. And then for, like, special occasions, we would definitely make all the different kinds of cakes and cookies and brownies. I loved brownies. She would make on the weekends, a few more savory dishes. She had kind of an American Chinese dish called Kung Pao shrimp. 

MARTIE: Yum. 

ZAC: That I don't know where she picked that up from. It's also in my cookbook and it's really a good recipe and it's delicious. And that was like her signature dish that she would make. What my dad took care of was like anything that had to do with meat, fish, pasta.

MARTIE: Alright, but I also read somewhere that you would do elaborate desserts... [5.4s] 

ZAC: I would. 

MARTIE: ...For your family. You would do like big things that would take a whole day.

ZAC: Yeah, very elaborate cakes. And I kind of think of them as like my ball gowns now, in process. I started watching this great TV show that was on cable after school when I was, like, in middle school. I didn't have a lot of friends. I kind of felt like an outsider but I would come home and I'd watch this show called Great Chefs. I was just like fascinated by more of the elaborate processes. And I guess I had been introduced to, like, Martha Stewart's first Living book. And, you know, I was always interested in like piping technique. I like clay and molding, and then I got really into chocolate and playing with chocolate like clay and just figuring it out. And then it went into like fondant and almond paste. 

MARTIE: Wow.

ZAC: Sometimes it would be a disaster mess and sometimes it'd be like a two-day affair. But I really had a ball. And I mean, I'll remember, like dipping balloons in chocolate.

MARTIE: Oh, God. Even before that was popular, you did it. 

ZAC: Yeah. 

MARTIE: Oh, my gosh. What do you suppose happened that put you on the path to fashion design rather than culinary school? 

ZAC: I never even thought about culinary school. I mean, I always liked theater and film. And my parents took me to the theater and my dad recorded every film and all the classics. And I was really exposed to a lot of culture. You know, my first love was performing arts. And as a kid, I had little maquette theaters and I would do little figurines and I would dress them in my room. And, you know, that's how it started. I was dressing my dolls.

MARTIE: Oh wow. Do you know, I've had so many designers that I've worked with over the years in the wedding business who said the same thing. They — most of them said though, I was dressing my sister's dolls.

ZAC: You know, it was still kind of taboo for a boy to have a doll. I think, you know, some places it still is. It really shouldn't be because everybody is who they are. But... 

MARTIE: Oh, get what you want.

ZAC: Yeah, exactly. I first sewed at six years old. I took a sewing class where we made an apron in school. 

MARTIE: Could you make some now? Because I don't like any aprons I ever get. They don't fit me right. So could you get back to aprons? 

ZAC: I've made some cool aprons before. You know, I like them where they have like a snap. So it has like a fold over? 

MARTIE: Right.

ZAC: And that's really nice. And I like them real snug. 

MARTIE: Yeah. Well you have a great way of making — I'm just going to say it, mature women's bodies look really wonderful. 

ZAC: Thank you. I really, you know, I respect and have great love and admiration and adore different body types, you know? And all bodies and I love curves, I mean...

MARTIE: Well, you do a great job of making them look amazing, 

ZAC: You can eat your cake and wear your gown, too. 

MARTIE: Yeah, there you go. 

ZAC: And then I got to high school and there was a costume shop at the theater in my high school. It was so cool. And I loved using the sewing machines and the material. And there were really fabulous girlfriends in high school. And I just started making them clothing. And I really used fashion as expression. And it was like my dialog with New York City in, you know, the early, mid-'90s. It was an exciting time for fashion in New York. 

MARTIE: Yes. How in the world, though, did the cookbook come along? Because you were in the middle of a giant fashion career...

ZAC: Yup. 

MARTIE: ...Dressing the most famous women on the planet.

ZAC: Well, I was doing all that, but I would come home and cook. 

MARTIE: You would always just come home and cook?

ZAC: Yeah, I would go to an event in my black tie, come home, jump in the shower, and cook. Like, I wouldn't eat at the event. Yeah there's so much good food in New York and, and that's great. But, also, I think that being so much in the public eye, you know, there was a moment when I was like — had my cookbook, I was on Project Runway, I was the face of Delta Airlines. 

MARTIE: That's right. 

ZAC: I was the creative director of Brooks Brothers. And gosh knows what other things I was doing that were, you know, very large and public. And I really knew that it was important to have my home time and my alone time. And I feel like I'm part of New York City. I feel like I'm a citizen of the world, but especially in my hometown, like, I leave my house and there's a good 99.9 percent chance that, like, I have to be on when I'm at a restaurant. And, you know, I take that with great responsibility. So home time was really something important. It was like my time where I could let down my hair. 

MARTIE: So how in the world did you do a cookbook when you don't write down recipes? 

ZAC: So I posted my food on Instagram. 

MARTIE: OK.

ZAC: I posted a piece of food on Instagram. My fashion friend said, 'you are crazy, like, fashion people don't want to see food.' And I said, 'but I cook and I want to — let's see.' And I did this hashtag #cookingwithZac. There hadn't been, like, a cooking with hashtag yet, I'll say that. And it took off. 

MARTIE: Wow. 

ZAC: And all of a sudden I was being contacted by cooking shows and by publishers. And I would say to be fair, prior to that, because of my love of cooking, I had cooked at the James Beard House.

MARTIE: Oh, wow. 

ZAC: That was kind of a big deal. 

MARTIE: Yeah, I'd say.

ZAC: And I cooked with Giada [De Laurentiis] and I cooked with Marcus [Samuelsson].

MARTIE: Aw, two of my favorites. 

ZAC: They're wonderful.

MARTIE: Wonderful. 

ZAC: I did appearances on Martha's show, all prior to this and prior to me writing a cookbook. But then I found a publisher and I found a collaborator that I love. 

MARTIE: Yes.

ZAC: Raquel.

MARTIE: Raquel. I know her, too. She's wonderful.

ZAC: Yeah. Powerhouse. 

MARTIE: Yeah.

ZAC: And I just liked Raquel. I had no idea really about her background or how accomplished she was. And we just had a blast. And it was, like, two and a half years of development and double checking, triple checking every recipe — because I cook from instinct.

MARTIE: Right. So what would you cook when you would come home on those red carpet nights and you'd come and then you'd post on Instagram the next day. What kind of things would you cook?

ZAC: Oh wow. I would cook ravioli that I had made like the pasta dough the day before or the raviolis. I'd make gnocchi. I mean, people don't realize actually how quick. If you can boil potato and have like forty minutes.

MARTIE: You can make gnocchi.

ZAC: You can make gnocchi and then I got really into traditional Japanese food and I don't mean sushi.

MARTIE: Wow. 

ZAC: Like curries. 

MARTIE: Right.

ZAC: Like Japanese curries and like steamed and stewed vegetables in different dashi broths.

MARTIE: Oh, delicious.

ZAC: And then I started doing like fusion. Then the Italian met the Japanese.

MARTIE: So your cookbook includes all of these things. 

ZAC: Yeah, and it's totally eclectic and very me. 

MARTIE: Yeah. I love the way that you organize it, like a fashion collection.

ZAC: Yeah.

MARTIE: Spring and summer, resort. Fall and winter, holiday. That's just like a fashion collection. And so you — you're a gardener, too.

ZAC: Yeah.

MARTIE: Let's go and get that out there. You love to garden. Your father and your family garden.

ZAC: I love to garden. I'm looking at it on my terrace in this crazy heat of New York, right now. In the summer, I'm thinking, my dahlias need some water. I have like thirteen tomato plants out here. Different varieties. And, you know, my basil and dill...

MARTIE: Right. 

ZAC: ...And cilantro. I have a beautiful crepe myrtle that I call my summer lilac. 

MARTIE: Oh, nice.

ZAC: I love plants and botany. Like plants, fashion, and food, I kind of feel like I'm like an anthropologist and historian through those three things. My parents live on a farm now in Bucks County and they plant a few too many tomato plants because they can. So the tomatoes and the peppers — you know, once it starts, it's like 4th of July cornucopia. 

MARTIE: Right. It is and you got to put up because otherwise youd have to make it last.

ZAC: Either I'm going to open farmers' market or I'm going to bring it into my company. And, it was a really wonderful tradition to be able to share all that and bring the apples and bring the pears in season... 

MARTIE: Right. 

ZAC: ...And the peaches. There's nothing more loving than to be able to give homegrown produce.

MARTIE: Something you grew. Yeah, for sure. What are you going to do with your first homegrown tomatoes?

ZAC: Well, I hope I'm here. Like, if I'm not out of town. I'm watching one, they're, like, getting bigger and bigger before my eyes. I think that what I will do — you know, first, I'll try one raw. Like off the vine. You know, I might lay down on the ground like Lady Godiva and bite it, you know, and think the grapes are coming down...

MARTIE: Oh, fabulous.

ZAC: ...And bite it and feel really decadent and goofy and silly and, and fabulous.

MARTIE: You know what I love the most is the way my hands smell after I pick them.

ZAC: I love the smell of tomato leaves.

MARTIE: Oh, it's so beautiful, isn't it?

ZAC: You know, I've been picking off — my new thing is pruning my tomato plants. I'm taking the suckers off, they call them. 

MARTIE: Yup. Me, too.

ZAC: You know, I'm not necessarily pruning like the fruits of it. So the first thing I'll do then — then what I think I'm going to do is I will quickly par — poach it, peel it, and then let it sit in maybe, like, a Japanese broth or even like a chicken stock just — or a bullion or something, and then let it chill. 

MARTIE: Oh, that sounds beautiful, doesn't it?

ZAC: Just something simple. You know, I don't know what I'd add with that — some dill, some chervil, maybe? Some yogurt. 

MARTIE: Yeah, chervil is not something a lot of people use and I love it. OK, so the book Is Cooking with Zac. What is your number one go to dessert in that book? Because I love the blueberry pie. I grew up here with blueberries on my farm. 

ZAC: Yeah. Lucky you. 

MARTIE: You also have a pie dough, that's your favorite pie dough recipe. 

ZAC: Yeah. Easy pie dough. I mean I love making pies. I will tell you, my pandemic was totally a juxtaposition because I was getting like super fit and super healthy and cooking really healthy. But I was like on a pie craze. I have a very good friend, a supermodel, Irina Shayk, who just had me, like, pumping out pies every day. And it was like, I couldn't make enough pie. It was like pie, pie, pie. 

MARTIE: I did a lot of it, too. What's your favorite one? Your number one go-to?

ZAC: So what I really got into and I don't think it's in my cookbook, but it was really good, is where I started to do like a peach caramel. And I did it in a pan, almost like a tarte Tatin.

MARTIE: Oh, I love...

ZAC: But just in the pan. And then just before it was like too much, I then put it in like a half-baked crust. Where I put the weights on it or beans or, you know, whatever you want to do. Or double pan it. How everybody has their method. And that was amazing. And I also experimented for the first time, because there was such a great organic farm in Long Island where we were, with the 50-50 ratio of butter to lard. 

MARTIE: Oh yeah? 

ZAC: I'd never done it. I mean, I do my butter crust. But I wanted to try it. And, you know, it was interesting. It was definitely flakier. I found the flavor really intense. 

MARTIE: You liked it or? 

ZAC: No, I don't know. I don't know. But I was interesting. It was like a good trial. And, you know, I was trying everything. I also tried — this was actually — here's the best thing I did with apples. This was amazing, actually. I found cinnamon butter and I used it as the butter in my crust and it didn't burn.

MARTIE: Wow. So you found a compound butter that already had the cinnamon worked in?

ZAC: Yeah.

MARTIE: And then you made your pie crust of that that.

ZAC: Here's what I do. I freeze my butter.

MARTIE: I do, too.

ZAC: And I grate it.

MARTIE: Oh.

ZAC: And I take a grater and I grate it. You know, I used to do food processor, and I like doing that, too. But a grater is great. And then you can also even re-freeze the grated butter and just break it up. And that's like a one, two, three. A little splash of like ice water or vodka, or icy tequila even. What else do you put in your pie crust?

MARTIE: Well I do that same technique for my biscuits now. I don't know if you're a biscuit maker, but... 

ZAC: I love, I love biscuits and gravy. 

MARTIE: Ok. So when you make your biscuits, do that same thing.

ZAC: OK.

MARTIE: You know, go ahead and... 

ZAC: Yeah. 

MARTIE: ..Use your your box greater and grate your butter and then put it back in the freezer and get it super cold before you integrate your buttermilk...

ZAC: Yeah.

MARTIE: ...And all that. Now I'll — Dorie Greenspan told me about the vodka and I had not ever tried it but it works. 

ZAC: It works. It's good. 

MARTIE: Yeah, it gives that — I think it's the extra fast evaporation that gives the little layers a chance...

ZAC: Pop. 

MARTIE: To pop up a little bit. 

ZAC: Yeah. 

MARTIE: So listen, people are starting to gather again after quarantine. And what are you looking most forward to making for friends as we all get together this summer? 

ZAC: I like simple. I'm like so excited about simple foods. I mean, I'm excited about having, like, oysters with my friends. 

MARTIE: Yeah.

ZAC: I mean, nothing better, you know, I'll make a great little mignonette. 

MARTIE: Mignonette. Yeah.

ZAC: Yeah. A little mignonette, it's so sweet and cute. You know, that's really fun. I look forward to like pie time.

MARTIE: Me, too. 

ZAC: You know, I've also really been, on this like crazy food-health kick. And that's been fun. Last night I actually — here's an example. I had like a few friends come over and I pre-made farro. 

MARTIE: Nice.

ZAC: I boiled some farro cause that's like a healthy grain. 

MARTIE: Right.

ZAC: And I splashed it with a little olive oil, even just a little bit of like apple cider vinegar tossed it.

MARTIE: To pop.

ZAC: Yeah, just to give it a little pop. A little salt and pepper. And then I chopped up fresh mint from my garden and added some hummus on top of it. And that was delicious. And I accompanied that with, like, I've been doing a lot of roasted whole fish.

MARTIE: I noticed on your Instagram you do a lot of fish, which is my favorite.

ZAC: Yeah, fish is my favorite dish. Um, I have to, you know I'm trying to balance that out with, you know, not fish. You know, my whole thing is about not holding yourself back from eating anything, but all in moderation. Right? Like that's what it should be.

MARTIE: All is possible with moderation. 

ZAC: It's always possible with moderation and balance. So I don't know. You know what I'm really excited about? 

MARTIE: I'm ready.

ZAC: I got it. It's — I can't wait to have my first gazpacho of the summer.

MARTIE: Oh, I love gazpacho. It's one of my favorite things.

ZAC: I cannot wait. 

MARTIE: People love it. And it's just so fun to have as a party starter. You know what I do sometimes? I make little cups out of cucumbers and so I put the gazpacho in...

ZAC: Oh, that's so cute.

MARTIE: Yeah. For big party and I've done it for weddings and stuff and just for friends.

ZAC: That's so cute. I also tried last summer like melon gazpachos.

MARTIE: I love them.

ZAC: Yeah, me, too. It's really good. Yeah. 

MARTIE: I love peach. Peach gazpacho. I live in peach country. So peach gazpacho's brilliant. 

ZAC: I'm jealous. I don't think there's almost anything better than like a beautiful peach.

MARTIE: Summer peach. 

ZAC: A peach when it is like the perfect texture, that perfect bite that — the smoothness of it.

MARTIE: Yeah.

ZAC: I mean, it's really something — it's a delectable treat and, you know, I spent a lot of time also going to Japan and, you know, they give peaches as presents, you know?

MARTIE: I do, too.

ZAC: It's just like the greatest thing in the world. Lucky you.

MARTIE: Oh, yeah. It's just right down the road, too. The world's greatest peaches are in Chilton County, Alabama.

ZAC: Cool. 

MARTIE: And we're just about to start the free stone season here in just a little bit. 

ZAC: Wow. When do they bloom? 

MARTIE: Um, in the late winter, early spring. 

ZAC: Wow.

MARTIE: For us, that can be February. 

ZAC: OK. I spent a little time a few months ago in South Carolina and in North Carolina.

MARTIE: Nice. 

ZAC: Getting close down there. Very beautiful.

MARTIE: It is.

ZAC: I have to say, I started to get really crazy, like more 'Southern garden envy.'

MARTIE: Yeah.

ZAC: Not tropical, not tropical envy because that's it's own thing, but like Southern garden envy, I thought, oh, this soil is beautiful and rich and I started to see what it looked like when we drove through Virginia and all of it. And I was like, wow.

MARTIE: Well, we live in the red clay area but weirdly, blueberries grow really well here and so do peaches. So...

ZAC: Yeah, my parents' in Pennsylvania's red clay too, so I kind of understand and got into it.

MARTIE: I want you to quickly tell me about your gazpacho because I want to try to make it your way. Tell me really quick.

ZAC: Ok. I'll just tell you, like, you know, I — my way? The kitchen sink of vegetables. 

MARTIE: Yes.

ZAC: I mean, my tomatoes, my tomato juice. I add grapes for sweetness.

MARTIE: Oh, I like that.

ZAC: That's a trick. I do cucumber. I do peppers. I do my white sweet onion. A little jalapeño or even like the smallest little sliver of like a Scotch bonnet if you want the heat.

MARTIE: Oh, wow. Yeah. Nice. 

ZAC: Yeah, some vinegar.

MARTIE: Yeah. 

ZAC: Your choice of vinegar, somes grapes, and yeah I don't think...

MARTIE: I like the grape tip. That's a good one. 

ZAC: The grape is nice for sweetness. You know, I used to put in like a little balsamic into it.

MARTIE: Right.

ZAC: And that can work. 

MARTIE: Yeah.

ZAC: But I think the grape adds a nice pop and flavor, especially like if your tomatoes — you know, I like using little tomatoes for a gazpacho. Like really those super sweet ones.

MARTIE: Yeah me too

ZAC: Blend that all together. You know, and I trying to think if I'm missing anything. My onion, my peppers. I mean — oh, cucumbers.

MARTIE: Cucumbers. Yeah. So yeah put it in something and put it in the fridge. 

ZAC: Keep it in an immersion blender. Blend it all up. Zzz.

MARTIE: Yeah. The best, the best.

ZAC: Chill it. Let it sit.

MARTIE: Yes. 

ZAC: That's also the trick. Let all those flavors like come to be.

MARTIE: I can't wait. I'm going start getting my mind around like what kind of grapes are going to go best in my new gazpacho you've just taught me. 

ZAC: Ok. 

MARTIE: So, ya'll, Zac Posen, not just designer to the stars. He's also quite a cook. Cooking with Zac: Recipes From Rustic to Refined. Thank you so much for sharing part of your life... 

ZAC: Oh, anytime.

MARTIE: ...Your mom and dad's background with all your family. 

ZAC: It was such a pleasure. you're a delight and a jewel. Thank you.