Jessica Dang:

Hi, there. You're listening to Episode Number 11 of the Cook Smarts podcast. I'm
Jess Dang, the founder of Cook Smarts, and I'm here to help you become a more
confident and organized cook in the kitchen. So have you all missed me?
Because I have missed you. It's been a couple of months since we released our
first 10 podcast episodes for Season One. And as some of you know, I had a
baby girl named Charlie right around the release of the first episode in late April.
And our family of five is just doing great. Charlie is now already four months old.
She's smiling, cooing, and just the sweetest, chillest third child anyone could
ever wish for.

Jessica Dang:

But we've definitely had some challenges with the older two. So Neko just
turned four a few weeks ago, and Bowie turned two three months ago. And
they are just like two peas in a pod. Not only do they share a room, but they
also share a bed. They have a bunk bed, but neither kid wants the top bunk. So
they share the bottom full size mattress, and they never ever want to go to
sleep. And they gang up against me and my husband during bedtime. And yeah,
it is just fun to be taken down by two little human beings, who don't even reach
your hip, every single night. It is a humbling experience, part of parenthood, I
guess.

Jessica Dang:

But mostly, these two have just embraced their little sister, and we've had such
a great summer adjusting to our new normal. I, of course, took a little bit of
time off. But if you know me, you know that I love my job and Cook Smarts. And
I was just super excited to get back to work and brainstorming what we were
going to bring you in Season Two. Of course there is still tons to cover, and
we've got another 10 episodes filled with tips and tricks to help you live happier,
simpler, and smarter in the kitchen.

Jessica Dang:

Now, if you haven't listened to our first 10 episodes, scroll through our podcast
feed on your podcast player because I know there is something for you in there.
Maybe you need some advice on future pots and pan purchase, or how to meal
plan better. Or perhaps you just found out you're expecting, congrats by the
way, and need to get a process in place for how to feed yourself while you're
sleep-deprived and caring for a newborn. We've got episodes that address all
those questions. So check out one of our previous episodes because we've put
together lots of great practical and usable tips for you.

Jessica Dang:

And speaking of practical and useful tips, today's episode is full of them. For this
kick off to Season Two and back to school season, I've invited one of my
entrepreneurial heroes Laura Fuentes to give us advice on planning for and
packing school lunches, because I know millions of us are about to face that
daily task. And Laura is an official lunch expert. Her company Momable started
out as a lunch meal planning company but has grown also to offer dinner meal
plans and three transformative health programs. One of them focuses on
helping families eat less processed foods and sugar. She also has an amazing
picky eating course, and also a budget meal planning program.


And because she is such a remarkable individual, she gives us lots of great life
tips for the kitchen and beyond, like how to help your partner pitch in more
around the house. I know you're all excited to learn more about and from Laura.
So without further ado, here's our chat. Oh, and don't forget to listen until the
very end because we have a special gift for one lucky listener. Laura, welcome
to the Cook Smarts podcast. It is such a treat to have you here, especially for
back to school season.

Laura Fuentes:

Yes, I am so excited. You know we've been online friends for so long, and I'm a
huge admirer of what you do. This is really my favorite time of the year, one of
them, just because I feel like my expertise is most helpful to a larger group of
people. It's just so hard to get started with meals, and packing lunches,
especially as a mom. Really, I'm in the trenches with your audience too. So I'm
super excited to be here today.

Jessica Dang:

Yes, we're excited to get all of your great tips. But before we do, I just want to
introduce you to everybody and just talk about, you know, I've admired
everything you've done basically since I started Cook Smarts seven years ago.
And you've made so many brave changes in your life, from deciding to stay at
home with your three kids, to then starting your company Momables while also
home schooling your kids at that time. You've written cookbooks. You have this
amazing YouTube channel. You're so active on social media. Seriously, I don't
know how you manage to be so productive and do so much. Because I think the
only reason I was able to get Cook Smarts off the ground was because I didn't
have kids yet and had all the time in the world to work 16 hour days. So I just
want to know, with such a full plate already, what inspired you to start
Momables and how you made this transition into the food world.

Laura Fuentes:

You just really summed up like the last 10 years of my life, which is really one
huge change after another. And really, we were talking about this right before
we got started, but really having a flexible mindset, which I think as parents is
something that will make or break your experience at home and as a parent.
And so really, that flexibility of the mindset is really what shifted my corporate
experience and world, which has nothing to do with food. I'm like you. My
background's in global economics, so I had to learn how to cook for myself 13
years ago, well really almost 14, when I was pregnant with my daughter. And
really, I struggled because this is before Pinterest and social media, okay?

Laura Fuentes:

14 years ago, I had Food Network. And I had the public library and Barnes &
Nobles for books and recipes books. So it was really a matter of trial and error.
And then I really just realized, my gosh, cooking is such a process, in the sense of
like chicken cooks this way, beef cooks this way. So then I was like, "Wow, I can
really understand this," right? So I taught myself how to cook. And then I started
a personal blog years ago, before Momables. And I found that people, whenever
I shared things about food, and then I feel like I'm really a dinosaur in the
blogging world. 12 years ago, it's not like everybody now goes to Pinterest, and
you land on a blog, right?



Back then, it was like, wow, people can relate to answering the question of,
"How do I pack a sandwich in a lunchbox so it doesn't get soggy, or it doesn't get
all mushy. Because also, I know maybe it's shocking to you if you're listening,
but 12 years ago, there were no compartments in lunch boxes. We had Ziploc
bags, and we had the Rubbermaid or Ziploc lunch containers, you know? Or
regular Tupperware. So you really had to figure this stuff out. And I quickly
observed that people would come back over and over whenever I shared my
tips. And so I just said, "You know what?" I'm going to learn all that I can by
watching Food Network and writing things down, trying recipes, and then share
it out with the internet.

Laura Fuentes:

And that really boils down to how I transitioned into Momables, realizing that
there was an opportunity to share this with more people, or moms at that time,
that really struggled to pack lunches and make meals for their families.

Jessica Dang:

So when you started, was your focus really just on lunches? Or what were you
trying to cover? What are the big challenges that you were trying to answer
with Momables?

Laura Fuentes:

Yeah, when I first started, it answered the, "What do I pack for school lunch?"
Question. Right? Because thus the name Momables, like Lunchables, but
Momables. I had a two and three year old. And she was three. She was going to
preschool a couple of days a week. And we went to the store. She wanted
Lunchables. Because they were bright, they were colorful, and all the other kids
were eating them. I bought them a couple of times. I share that with people all
the time. I'm like, "I bought them, and she didn't like them." But she wanted the
container itself. You know, this was before these cool lunch containers we have
today.

Laura Fuentes:

So I started literally, I would buy some Lunchables. I would take out the meat
and cheese and whatever it is that came inside. And I would replace that with
better quality deli ham and cheese and real crackers. You know, the stuff, really
the versions of what was in there that she actually liked. And then I would take
that Glad Press 'N' Seal or plastic wrap, and just wrap it up. And so literally I was
reusing Lunchables to create a Momable. And then she's the one that called it a
Momable, and then that's how the name stuck.

Jessica Dang:

Oh, I didn't know that. That's so great that your daughter was the one that kind
of named your company for you.

Laura Fuentes:

Yeah, she's like, "Oh, you made me a Momable." And I'm like, "Yeah." And then
of course, I discovered other lunch containers that were compartmentalized,
like EasyLunchboxes were the first ones in the market years ago. So that really
made my life easier. And then of course, from that, I started sharing the things
that I had found that were helpful, with the audience that I was building online.

Jessica Dang:

Yeah, so this was like 10-11 years ago.
Yes, in 2010. Really, online, digitally, like 2010. 2011. I sold our first meal plan in
2012.

Jessica Dang:

2012, okay. Yeah, this is right around the time Cook Smarts started. So we have,
yes, very parallel paths in that way. Yeah, and so I don't know what it is. I find
that packing lunches for kids is such a challenge. Even as a professional meal
planner, I find it really easy to think about dinners, but I still get so stuck with
lunches, which is clearly why your company is solving a real challenge.

Jessica Dang:

But I think a lot of it is there's restrictions around lunches. At my kids' preschool,
teachers don't have the time to warm things up, and there are no nut products
allowed. I know in some places, there are no dairy products. So as someone
who's had so much experience packing lunches, built an entire company around
it, what are some of your tips for making this everyday chore feel less like a
chore?

Laura Fuentes:

Honestly, I don't see a difference between lunch, dinner, or breakfast. My kids
sometimes take scrambled eggs for lunch. So I think the first thing I want to tell
people is eliminate the idea that lunches require some type of sandwich, or
some type of wrap, or what you would typically find in a, quote, "lunch" menu.
When you think of lunch as just another meal, then the possibilities of what you
can pack and send are endless. And it's just really a matter of logistics of what
container are you going to put the food in? Right?

Jessica Dang:

Right.

Laura Fuentes:

So if you could just think of it as a normal meal, then you would then go, "Well,
what do I need to do to pack ..." The leftovers you have in your fridge from two
nights ago are amazing inside of a Thermos container. So I'm a huge promoter
of Thermos containers because if it's a winner for dinner, it's a winner for lunch.
And it doesn't have to be the very next day. So number one, eliminate the idea
that lunch has to be a sandwich. Yes, schools have restrictions of no peanuts,
and this and that. But eliminate the "can't have". It's almost like when you're on
a diet. Don't think about all the things that you can't have. Open your mind up
to the possibilities of all the things that are out there, and you can have and do,
right?

Jessica Dang:

Oh, I love that. Yes. And I tell people that all the time who've been diagnosed
with an allergy. It's like, "Okay, yes. You can't have gluten. But think of all the
other things you can still have."

Laura Fuentes:

Most foods are gluten free, natural gluten free. But oh my gosh, there's no label
on the apple that it's gluten free. Well, I mean, obviously. It's a little trickier with
grains. But honestly, for the most part, I tell people, "Even through you have a
lot of restrictions, buy a Thermos. A Thermos container, we have two per kid
here. I have one child that literally is my hot lunch kid, and he just takes a
Thermos everyday with whatever. So I have meatballs in the freezer. I have a lot

Yes.

Laura Fuentes:

Lunch also requires, like anything else, a little prep. So invest in a few
containers, not just that. You're not going to put together the morning of. Prep
the sides. Prep the veggies. Prep the fruit. Prep things that can fill the bulk of
your lunch. And then most of the job is done for you. So that's another huge
obstacle that people are like, "Oh my gosh. It takes so long in the morning."
Well, if you just prep a lot of the stuff the night before, then the morning should
be a quick execution of maybe it's chopping the apples, or maybe it's washing
something. You know?

Jessica Dang:

Yes. And so do you typically pack lunches the morning of? Or how does that
process work for you with three kids in the house?

Laura Fuentes:

The next things people ... You know my kids are home schooled, number one,
for the last couple of years because of my company, our schedule, and
opportunities. But I still pack lunch every single day because people have to eat,
and mom's at the office. And my kids do get, basically they go to a center a few
days a week to get ... They kind of go to college, but regular school. So they go
to a place where they're nine to three. And it's almost like they go to their
lecture, and they get the material, and they come home and do it. So I still have
to pack lunch. For the kid that likes to eat hot lunch, everything is prepped the
night before, or a couple of days before, or in the freezer, and then I just warm
up in the morning. Mornings are for assembly. I'm not caffeinated enough to
pack something from scratch.

Jessica Dang:

Yeah, I agree too. I try to have as much done the night before. So would you go
into the week with a plan of what lunches are going to look like? I guess maybe
just tell me about your meal planning process and maybe what a Momables
plan looks like.

Laura Fuentes:

Our plan assumes that you go into the week, you're going to tackle this so that
you can have easy meals throughout the week, where you're going to do a lot of
the prep over the weekend. Or we actually break down the prep, just like you,
throughout the week as well. But all of it, you have the option of prepping on
Sunday, for the most part. So I prep my dinners, most of my dinners, and then
our lunch plans, also I'll have like what to prep and how to make it ahead. For
example, you can send a grilled sandwich to school. You just have to prep it the
night before. And in the morning, you just grill, let it cool down, and then
assemble it into the lunchbox.

Laura Fuentes:

So all of it is broken down into the least amount of work to do right before the
meal, right? So I kind of go at it with, "What am I making for dinner?" And then,

CS011new (Completed 08/14/19)
Transcript by Rev.com

Page 5 of 26

This transcript was exported on Aug 15, 2019 - view latest version here.
"How do I reinvent that into lunch?" And then a couple of times a week, my kids
have sandwiches. Even though one of them doesn't eat sandwiches. But the
point is, a couple of times a week it's like peanut butter and jelly or a ham
sandwich whatever's around.
Jessica Dang:

And you try ... So it sounds like you have one kid that likes the hot lunches. So
do you pack different lunches for all of them depending on their preferences?
Or do you try your best to be like, "You guys are all eating the same thing."

Laura Fuentes:

Oh my gosh, I try my best for everyone to eat the same. So, like, I made a huge
pot of ... I live outside of New Orleans. So there's something called dirty rice,
which my kids love. And literally, my youngest has taken dirty rice to camp
everyday this week. Today we're Wednesday, so for three days in a row, in a
Thermos. And the other one too it one day, and then skipped a day, had a
sandwich, and then took it.

Laura Fuentes:

And I know it's hard for a lot of parents because they're listening and going like,
"Yeah." But my kids? Something different everyday. Or each kid likes something
different. So you know what? Take a few different things, and then you mix and
match. But the idea is to really simplify how many different things that you
pack. Or I have, like I told you earlier, I have single serve meatballs frozen in my
freezer. I have frozen peanut butter sandwiches, frozen ham and cheese
sandwiches. My freezer is my friend. And so that is really another key to
executing packing lunches really quickly.

Jessica Dang:

So what you're saying is a little bit of planning, getting those freezer meals,
makes a huge difference in terms of executing lunch.

Laura Fuentes:

Yeah, and they don't have to be like freezer meals, like what we think of dinner
freezer meals, you know? Where like you try things that go in the Crock-Pot. I'm
talking about you just made dinner, and you've got six meatballs left over, well
your kid's going to eat three at lunch. Hey, that's two future lunches, as opposed
to putting the meatballs in the refrigerator for another night. Because I'm like,
"Six meatballs is not going to feed my family of five." Okay? Let's be real. And I
didn't double the recipe, but these make great lunches. So that's how I end up
with a lot of single serve life savers in my freezer.

Jessica Dang:

Oh, that's so smart. Because I think a lot of people, if they had just a few
meatballs left over, it would end up back in the fridge, and then nobody would
eat it, and then eventually it would spoil, and they'd toss it out. But you're
seeing that as an opportunity for the future. So you're always thinking ahead, it
sounds like.

Laura Fuentes:

Totally. I don't even clean up and put it in the fridge for the week unless it has a
purpose for lunches. If not, things get immediately frozen.


Yeah. That's so smart. Yeah, my husband, he has this habit of leaving me two
things. It's like two bites of something. And I'm like, "Why did you just not eat
this?" So yes, you've identified where things can actually be put away and help
you in a future scenario.

Laura Fuentes:

Totally repurpose. That's really, I'm the Queen of Leftovers. That's how I became
really focused on lunch. Because I was like, "Lunch is just an opportunity for me
to get rid of this food." You know? Like a roast from dinner. You know what? I
made your poke bowl recipe from your meal plan, I think probably like a year
ago, like a staple. The marinade is like the best poke bowls out there. And it's so
simple too. But now I turn it into a dressing. And I'm like, "Oh my gosh. This is
the best as dressing." So I just stretched it out. I made it into an amazing salad
dressing. Or we had extra pineapple. I'm like, "Oh, I'm going to use that
pineapple in salads for this week." You know?

Jessica Dang:

Yes, I think a lot of it is just thinking just more creatively. And I think a lot of
times, parents are just exhausted. And so the last thing they want to do is
having to think more creatively. But that's why having a meal plan service, like
Momables and Cook Smarts, makes so much sense because we have to kind of
take that creative work away from you. But at the same time, the more you do
it, the more you start to identify these patterns for yourself too.

Laura Fuentes:

Right. I mean, a lot of people come to you and me thinking, "Oh, I'm lost when it
comes to planning and prepping." I just really, oh my gosh, I don't have a food
background. I started because I subscribe to another company's, like 15 years
ago, to a meal plan, so I would know how to do all this stuff. And gain that
confidence in the kitchen of like, "Is my chicken done? Is my pork done?" Which
your course teaches really well. You know? Like all those basics, I didn't have
them. So I realized, "Hey, I need the help, and I need someone else to help me
do that for a tiny minimal fee." You know?

Jessica Dang:

Yeah. It makes so much sense for some ... There are some things, like we just
were talking earlier before, before we hit record, it's like as business owners
there are some things that are just not worth our time, that we can have a
professional do it, and it makes such a huge difference in our lives.

Laura Fuentes:

Totally.

Jessica Dang:

So I love leftovers. I am someone that loves having them for lunch. I do find that
my kids and I've heard this from other parents too. They have trouble getting
their kids to have leftovers for lunch. So for parents that are in that boat, what
are your recommendations for them?

Laura Fuentes:

Okay. Leftovers. You are never going to call leftovers "leftovers". Leftovers are
called starters. They're meal starters. Leftovers are really the beginning of a new
meal. So it's like the two meatballs. You're like, "What do I do with those?" Well,
now you're out of pasta. Well, I send my kid with two meatballs only. It doesn't

have to be spaghetti and meatballs. It could just be the meatballs only, along
with half an apple and then some crackers or something else. We think so hard
on how to ... It's an all or nothing. It's really not an all or nothing. It's just this
plus that. So I also don't serve leftovers, the exact same thing, the very next day.
Because then they do feel like leftovers, right?
Jessica Dang:

Yes.

Laura Fuentes:

So if you just had chicken burgers or turkey burgers for dinner and you're like,
"Oh, we have one burger patty left over. No one's going to eat that." I'm like,
well, actually, maybe not the next day. But just skip a day. And then chop it up
on top of a salad and make into a burger salad. You have a salad as a base, and
you can put the burger, and some pickles and tomatoes. Essentially like a burger
in a bowl or something. I think we forget that we have to feed ourselves too.
You know, and no one wants to eat that leftover burger patty. So it's just a
starter for something else.

Laura Fuentes:

By the way, you're listening, I'm sorry, but I am the eternal optimist. So it's like
everything to me is like, "Oh, that's so much fun. We're going to start this." You
know? So leftovers are not downers. They're uppers. They're really ... skip a day,
for sure.

Jessica Dang:

Yes. I love that. I think that you're able to see the opportunity in everything. And
yeah, so much of it is about just breathing new life into leftovers so that they
can be the starter for a new meal. And we have this whole infographic that's
about our guide to repurposing leftovers. So, exactly, you turn that burger patty
into a topping for a salad, or something to put into a burrito. There are just so
many ways.

Laura Fuentes:

Yeah, your infographics are amazing, by the way. I think I've shared a lot with
the one that How Long Do Leftovers Last? It might have a different title.

Jessica Dang:

The Freezer Guide. That's a question that I've had, like, "How long can I freeze
this for?" You know? It's like, "I've had this in the freezer for three years. Can I
still eat it?"

Laura Fuentes:

Again, a lot of it is just knowledge of what to do with it, which is something that
you and I really go out there and try to answer for people.

Jessica Dang:

Yeah. So one of the questions for, especially for folks that are going back to
school, kids going back to school, and they've never packed lunches, one of the
questions they have is really around containers. So you are a big fan of
Thermoses. Are there any other containers that you recommend that parents
should have in their lunch packing arsenal?

Laura Fuentes:

I am a big fan of one container with multiple compartments person because no
matter the age, kids, they just really like their food separate and nothing

squished. And presentation is so key. So there are a few, whether you like
plastic or stainless steel. I like also the kind that have a single lid because it
makes it easier. So for example, you have EasyLunchboxes, which is a plastic
one. You have Lunchbox, which is a metal stainless steel one. I actually have a
video, as you said mentioned earlier, I have YouTube. I love doing video because
I love showing people a visual of what you can fit in each container.
Laura Fuentes:

So I do have a video, I have two, on the best lunch containers, on my favorites.
And they've evolved over time. But there is something for everyone out there.
So, again, don't spend a lot on containers until you really know that one works
for your child. And also, practice. Have your child ... If this is the first time you're
packing lunches, have your child practice or eat out of a container, learn how to
open it and close it before school starts. So start packing their lunches at home
before school starts so that they get used to where their food is, how you're
going to pack it. You also learn how long things will hold out. You want to
separate crackers from the ham and the cheese because they'll absorb
moisture, and then they get soggy. So that's why I think containers with
compartments are really great.

Jessica Dang:

Yes, and I hear that stuff you learn after packing a few lunches, or from a lunch
packing veteran like yourself. Because, yeah, people don't realize like, "Oh, I
shouldn't put lettuce on the bread, a sandwich, because that makes the bread
soggy and not very good by the time noon hits and people have to unpack their
lunch." So where can people find these videos you're talking about?

Laura Fuentes:

So you go to YouTube/Momables, M-O-M-A-B-L-E-S. You will see I do release a
taco video every Tuesday. Well, I have been. They'll end soon. But essentially,
there's taco recipes. There's meals. There's salads. And then there's an entire
lunch how to section where it's like the best lunch containers, how to pack
yogurt in the lunch box, how to freeze smoothies. A lot of the questions that
people ask us, they're all there. You know, the top five Thermos containers. Not
all Thermoses are the same. Some have a wider mouth. Some have a small
mouth. You know, Thermoses, they have different temperature gauges, based
on the stainless steel. So really, all that stuff is on YouTube, and of course on
Momables.com. But on YouTube if you want a video, or just Google. I'm sure,
Jess, you'll put some links in the show notes for the helpful videos. But yeah,
essentially, everything you want to know about how to pack lunches, it's in
YouTube.

Jessica Dang:

Yes. Everyone should go to your YouTube channel. Because last year was when I
first started packing lunches. My daughter started a preschool that was not
providing lunches. And I went onto your YouTube channel and just watched
everything about lunch packing. And it was so helpful, especially the lunch
containers. Because that was, to me like, "Oh, I have to get the right container
so she'll want to eat her lunch." And it is true about what you mentioned, that
tip of making sure they can open it. Because there were some containers that I
bought ... So I bought like a ton on Amazon, just to kind of do my own testing.

And there were some that I was like, "There's no way a three year old can do
this on her own." And yes, she could ask a teacher. Of course there's people
there helping her. But it was, I think, really important to me that she could feel
like she could open her lunch box on her own.
Laura Fuentes:

Right. A lot of time things would come home uneaten, and I'd asked my son,
"Why didn't you eat this?" He'd be like, "Couldn't get it open." I'm like, "Ohhh."
And when he did go to regular school years ago, they had a policy where
teachers really weren't able to assist with the food or whatever. So I learned
really quickly like, "Oh, this Thermos container is just not going to work for him
because his hands aren't big enough to open it." Or, "I really need a Thermos
container with a rubberized grip on the top because they can hold it better,
right? And a lot of it is just trying it at home before you send your child out to
eat. You know?

Jessica Dang:

Oh, that makes so much sense, doing a test run or even serving some lunches
probably out of those containers before school starts and just getting them used
to unzipping their lunch bag, and taking the containers out, and eating off them.
That's such a smart idea.

Laura Fuentes:

Right? And then there is the question of whether or not they'll eat it. But that's
a different topic, on picky eaters, I don't know.

Jessica Dang:

Yes. Well, actually since you mentioned picky eaters, I think we can switch gears
a little bit and talk about that. I love that you've been really honest about the
fact that you've had some really big challenges helping your kids, especially your
daughter, overcome picky eating. And I think people assume that, "Oh, you're in
the food biz. You get a free pass on that." But it's so not true. I think kids are
who they are and picky eating is such a universal problem that so many parents
face. So can you talk more about your journey, what you tried, what you
learned, and what you're still learning?

Laura Fuentes:

Yeah. Gosh, as a matter of fact, I'm very open about it, that my daughter was
very picky at first. She was my carb person. Now she eats all sorts of vegetables.
And I knew I was onto something one day, when she said, "Can I trade my
meatballs for broccoli?" Because she doesn't like the texture of meat. And I was
like, "Yes!" And then now broccoli is her favorite thing. My son actually is the
one that I spent seven years going through therapy with. We sought out
professional help because just like we were talking about meal planning and
everything else, there are things as a parent where even though my pediatrician
assured me that it was normal, and if you have a picky eater, it is normal that
your child asserts their independence and their own choices. It's natural that
they become selective about what they eat.

Laura Fuentes:

But with our son, we really had a clinical problem where he didn't like the
texture of certain foods. And so therefore, he eliminated entire food groups. Or

I know a lot of parents who have kids who will only eat a certain color of food,
and they won't touch green. There are really things that are beyond a stage.
Jessica Dang:

And how early did you see this? Or how early did you know this was beyond,
yeah, you said a stage, and something that you guys needed to seek
professional help on?

Laura Fuentes:

At the age of three or four is when I started noticing certain things. Like he
would complain, "My tummy hurts." He would stop eating. We also had gluten
intolerances. We could have an entire podcast on picky eating.

Jessica Dang:

Mm-hmm (affirmative). And I will invite you back when we do cover that
specific ... We have covered that topic, but I definitely want to hear it from your
perspective too.

Laura Fuentes:

But there are a lot of reasons why a child may be clinically picky eater. A lot of is
has to do with food allergies and how, when they're very young, they really
can't express how food makes them feel. So they associate food with
stomachaches or headaches, which really is an intolerance, right? So imagine
that you go to an Italian restaurant, and you overeat, and you walk out and
you're like, "Oh my gosh, I'm so stuffed." Right? We've all had that time in our
life where we just really overate and felt almost sick.

Laura Fuentes:

So if you think about a child who can't express or even link the, "I eat this
specific thing," because they're not developed enough to realize, "Oh, it may be
gluten. Or it may be dairy. Or it may be whatever it is." And it makes them feel
bad. So they just really start fearing food as a whole, or trying new things,
because they're really not sure how that food is going to make them feel
internally. So they have stomach aches or cramps. A lot of kids, constipation is a
huge issue for many kids, which is really ... It's not about fiber. It's really about
the type of food.

Laura Fuentes:

So all of these things were signs that I was really watching in my son, and at a
time where I was really frustrated because here I was, starting a business to
help people eat more of a variety of foods, and in my own house, I felt like I was
really out of control. So we went to a feeding therapist. I had a child
psychologist. I really invested a lot of time and money because it's a big financial
commitment to really seek help. And does my son eat everything today? No. But
really, he is more open to things, and I've gained a big understanding of the
process and techniques, things that really work, and things that don't work, and
how to implement those changes at home. You know, just really an entire ... my
life changed once I changed how I was approaching a lot of these things, you
know?

Laura Fuentes:

And so that's why I tell parents, "It can be a stage. But it can stick for a long
time. Even if your child is not, there's nothing clinically wrong with them, it can
stay because we are also continuing to feed that habit of being very selective.

Jessica Dang:

Yes. Exactly. And I know you have the whole course on this, on what parents can
do if they are dealing with this. And again, it's like yes, it can be a stage. But it
can be a very long drawn out stage. So for those with a picky child, you should
definitely check out Laura's course on Momables.com. But what are some things
that parents can do to just make this feel not so daunting or so overwhelming in
their lives? Because, you know, kids have to eat multiple times a day. It's the
way parents even we're set to nurture through food. And it is just really heard,
both emotionally and mentally.

Laura Fuentes:

Yeah, so one of the things that I tell parents is like, number one, remember that
you are the parent. So therefore, you're going to dictate how things are run in
your house, right? So if you already, whether you're seeking out meal planning
help, or you're just cooking your own meals, you're already determining what
kinds of foods are going to be brought into your home. Now, there are
preferences by our picky eaters on how they are served, or whether or not
they'll eat it. So my biggest tip is, number one, just make the food. There are
many times where I know, in my mind, I'm like, Ugh, my kid's not going to eat
this particular meal. But I'm going to make it anyway. I am going to serve it at
the table. But I am also going to make sure that there's one item at the table
that this particular child will eat.

Laura Fuentes:

So there were many nights where my son, he only had a big bowl of rice and
three pieces of the chicken minus the sauce and the vegetables. But think of a
stir fry, right? So he would only pick out the chicken. And you know what? It was
okay because I did my job as parent making a healthy and fresh meal. That's my
job. Their job is to choose to eat it or not. Right? So often we get very frustrated
because they won't try it. We're trying to negotiate. We're trying to, "Just will
you take a bite?" Or we have all these rules, which, in a way, they make the
eating environment not a positive one. And it's not very inviting for them to try
new stuff when there are so many rules and restrictions, right? Because kids,
they learn, they know exactly what to expect at the dinner table.

Laura Fuentes:

So the number one rule, even in our course, is understand what your role as a
parent is, which is to provide a healthy and fresh food for your family. And that's
it. Your job ends when you serve the food at the table. And then their job starts
with their selection of food. Right? So a lot of times, we get really upset when
our kids won't eat our food, or they say negative things. And those are all the
things that we cover in the course. But essentially, it's like no. You did your job.
Pat yourself on the back. You made the meal. Right?

Laura Fuentes:

And that's where it really ends. One meal, given that everything else that you
provide throughout the day, they're good options, one meal is not going to
make or break your child's nutritional deficiencies or not. That's why I always try
to explain to parents, "Don't put so much pressure on dinner. Distribute the
veggies and distribute the fruit, and everything else throughout the day." That's
why one of my rules for lunch, like we spoke earlier, is like, "Lunch is not about a
sandwich. It's all sorts of foods." Right? So when you are able to throw all their

meals into lunch, or the items that you might think of as traditionally dinner,
then the pressure of if they just eat a bowl of rice for dinner, and two pieces of
chicken, it's okay because they already ate all their foods at lunch. Right?
Jessica Dang:

Yes, I totally agree with that. And I think I have a pediatrician friend of mine told
me that, "Expect just one good meal. That's all you really need for most children
because by the time they hit two, their growing has slowed down from when
they were babies, when they're really doubling in size." And so from a
nutritional standpoint, one good meal really is all they need. So just, yeah. And
often dinner is the time that parents are with their kids. My kids are in care
during the day, and I know that they actually eat really well in care and
sometimes don't eat as well at dinner. That's because you're right. They've
gotten what they needed for the day and just kind of want to hang out with us
or do something else instead.

Laura Fuentes:

Well, also we put a lot of pressure at dinner. And it's something that our kids
really, honestly, there are cues. They pick up on this. And dinner, we're all really
tired. You and I, we work full time, so we've had a long day at work, our temper
is a little shorter. Kids also had a lot day at school, camp. Plus look at kids today.
They're going to school. It's like going to a full time job, right? They go to school
all day. And then we chauffeur them to activities. So they got an hour or two of
swim practice or soccer or whatever it is. They're just tired and cranky. Probably
they just don't want to voice it. But they just want to lay down. Right? How
many nights have you gotten to bed and go like, "Oh my gosh, I thought this
moment would never come." Right? As a mom? We're exhausted.

Jessica Dang:

Yes. Yes, yes. I want to head to bed so much earlier than my kids do.

Laura Fuentes:

Right. I started going to bed with the kids a few years ago. But that's a different
story. I'm like, gosh, kids, honestly, they're just so tired at the end of the day.
And we put so much pressure on making that one meal count that it's like,
"Hey." It's just exactly what your pediatrician friend said, like just make another
meal count. There are amazing breakfast eaters. There's nothing wrong with a
veggie omelet, or a quiche, something that you can prep ahead of time for
breakfast. It doesn't have to be toast and cereal. It could be something that
could be just warmed up and reheated.

Jessica Dang:

Yeah, totally. And I love that you've come at this from really an empathy
standpoint of you're empathizing with your kids. They're tired. And so let's just
lay off of them at dinner, which we don't have to play all these negotiation and
pressure and strategies. And it makes everybody's experience so much better.

Laura Fuentes:

And you guys, for you listening, things aren't perfect at dinnertime. I've lost my
senses at dinner many, many times. But these are things that I learned years of
going to therapy, not just with my kid but for myself and how to become a
better parent at meal times. And a lot of it, it was like the things that I cannot
control my child, but I can control me, and most importantly, how I approach

dinner. Like the dinner environment that we set up at home, how our meals are
eaten. I just bring everything out. I let people serve themselves. I ask them,
"Would you like some of this?" And my son says, "No." Well, now he'll say like,
"No, thank you." And then I don't go like, "But try it. Just one bite. What if you
like it?" I just take his answer as like he, "No." No is no, right?
Laura Fuentes:

I teach my sons, in the future, when a woman says no, or when somebody tells
you no, that's a hard stop. So when my child says no, that's a hard stop as well. I
stop negotiating. I stop bribing. I stop talking about dessert. That's it. But I did
my job. I offered.

Jessica Dang:

I love that analogy, that you've kind of been teaching them about consent. And
that you've tied it into dinnertime. That is great.

Laura Fuentes:

No means no in all areas of our life. I'm not going to take credit for this. This is
one of our therapists. But she's like, "As a parent, you're sending your child a lot
of mixed messages. If no ..." Even at a very ... I know we're not trying to teach
our sons about consent at the age of four, for example. But it is something that
we talk about down the road. Early age, when they say, "No, I don't want any,"
or they just said the word "no" and you don't respect it, you're saying, "But X, Y,
and Z." What does that say in other areas of their life? And the funny thing is, is
that we teach them down the road that, "No means no," and there is no buts,
and ifs, and maybes, or whatnots, right?

Laura Fuentes:

So it's the same thing at meal time. And that was a really hard lesson for me as a
parent. Because I was like, "Oh my gosh. What could this mean? I'm a mom of
boys." And it was very eye opening to me. So again, and it's tough. A lot of it is
lessons that I had to, honestly, I felt like couples therapy, mom therapy. But
they gave me that empathy for my child, of how to make meal times better. It's
not about perfection or getting our kids to eat. It's about setting up positive
eating habits that, they carry on for a lifetime.

Jessica Dang:

Yeah. I want to thank your therapist for me. Because I feel like that was a
moment of clarity for me, the way that she phrased that. It's like, "Oh my gosh. I
never thought about it that way, but that makes so much sense."

Laura Fuentes:

So happy that was helpful.

Jessica Dang:

Yes. Okay, so switching gears again, as the CEO of my household, when I travel
for work, I have to do so much planning to make sure everyone stays alive, they
get where they need to go, all are going to be fed. And it is really stressful.
There's so much work to do, and I know you now travel a ton for work. And your
husband quit his corporate job a few years ago to help you run Momables and
your entire media brand. So he often is the parent responsible for the
household while you're gone. So I have two questions here, and I think a lot of
parents listening are really going to want to know these answers. How did you
get to the point where more of the household responsibilities got shared? And

of course feel free to share any growing pains you had. And then, two, walk us
through your process for getting things organized when you leave for a trip.
Laura Fuentes:

Yeah. That was a hard one to go over time. Because I didn't just leave for one
night. I often leave for a whole week. I've had three week media stints.
Honestly, it's really been a learning ... When I first started traveling, my husband
was working full time in health care. So with an hour commute. So he had ... I
started traveling way before he quit his corporate job. So what I was doing at
that time, when he was working, and I was traveling, clearly, we had to have
either hired help, or family that his mom ... I would leave town and my motherin-law would come. And she loved it because she got uninterrupted time with
her grandkids. So she came and stayed with him for a few days to help him out
because he worked.

Laura Fuentes:

And so at the very beginning, I used to leave. Literally, I would leave basically
meals where it was like heat and eat. I would also have flexible nights where it
was like a frozen pizza for dinner, or just really depending on how many days a
week I would leave. Thermos, lunches. Oh my gosh, there were lists and postits. So it was really overwhelming at the beginning because it was like, "How is
someone else going to do the things that I do in five days while I'm gone?" And
then I learned to let some of it go. And that was huge.

Jessica Dang:

That is so hard for any mom. I think we're all control freaks. We think no one is
going to do it the way that we're going to do it.

Laura Fuentes:

And you know what? They don't. It's just like when your kid goes to daycare,
and you get your kid back, and you're like, "Ugh. Their diaper is so wet. Did they
not notice it an hour before we left?" Or like, "Their clothes are not put on the
same way." But at the end of the day, your kid's healthy, and it's alive. And they
have a diaper on, so it's good to go, right? That's how I've caught on. I really
started to let go. And I learned a lot of that through the therapy because of
feeding, you know? It was just a lot about letting go of that control mindset,
which is very hard. So how I transitioned from killing myself, literally, two nights
before my trip, which was very stressful, to I would go to the grocery. I would
prep. I would freeze. I had post-its on everything. I would have a meal schedule.

Laura Fuentes:

I started stepping back a little and going, "You know what?" I would ask my
mother-in-law if she came to sleep, you know, if you have somebody that comes
and that you're hiring to help out, what are the things that they would like to
serve that they know your kids will eat? And you just make sure that you have
those ingredients there. It's a lot about communication with the person that's
going to be there caring for your child, right? And then eventually, once I started
experiencing how freeing it was for me, or how relieved I was to not prep every
meal and plan everything out. I was like, "Whew, I'm not doing that again." So I
literally started making sure that we were stocked with food and ingredients
that could make quick and easy meals.


Laura Fuentes:

Honestly, if you don't have junk in your house, they're not going to be eating
junk all the time, right? And also, and then I was like, "You know what? My kids
eat really well when I'm home. If they're eating pizza, or my husband decides to
get Chinese food from their favorite restaurant down the road one night while
I'm gone, they're going to survive, right?" I took the healthy path of least
resistance there. So, again, I don't know if you can realize, but a lot of the things
that were going wrong in my house were because of me because I was fighting
the resistance. And once I let go of a lot of these control things, which I think as
an entrepreneur, as a working mom, it was something that was a problem for
me, things just really got easier.

Jessica Dang:

Yes. There's so much growth that happens if you're just willing to delegate and
know that someone else, they may not do it the same as you do it, but it will get
done.

Laura Fuentes:

So when it comes to food, I really let go. I made sure my house was stocked with
things that were easy to heat up. Or if you're married, a lot of people listening
may not be married to a spouse that's willing to cook. Then remember I talked
about meatballs or lasagna, or whatever it is. Have that stuff in the freezer. Or
slow cooker meals, also are very helpful, that kind of thing. But then the other
household chores, we've always been kind of ... I wouldn't say 50/50. But in
some things, he did a lot of. Some other things, I did everything. And then when
I travel, honestly, if my kids have no clean underwear, that wasn't my problem. I
did my part. I left, stuff was done. It was like, that's either the kid's problem or
the husband's problem.

Laura Fuentes:

Honestly, you know, even we just moved into our new house a couple of days
ago. And my son said, "I have no clean underwear." My husband's like, "Oh my
god." He's stressing out. I was like, "Listen, son. You either go to camp with
board shorts because they have a liner in them."

Jessica Dang:

Right, built in, yes.

Laura Fuentes:

"Or you're going to have to re-use yesterday's, okay? What else can I tell you?"
And so he was like, "Oh my God." He's the hot food kid. So he was like, "What?"
I was like,

Jessica Dang:

I love it. That's a genius mom trick. Just send them in swim trunks. It's fine. They
have their built in underwear.

Laura Fuentes:

"It's not water day today? What happened?" I'm just kidding. But it really is
about letting go of that perfection. I've really just embraced all the imperfect
things and the responsibilities. Like, if things don't get done, they don't get
done. There's a pile of laundry at the floor. If I don't have clean socks, I'll just go
sockless. You know? It's not about having to do everything at the same time.
You get it done eventually.

Jessica Dang:

Yeah. No, I agree with that. And that day, like now with social media and
everyone trying to convey these perfect images, I try to show when I get
takeout, or do something that people wouldn't expect of me because I'm a
professional meal planner. It's like, "No, we all have days where things kind of
fall apart. And it's totally okay."

Laura Fuentes:

Yeah.

Jessica Dang:

Totally okay.

Laura Fuentes:

That's like all the time over here, so it's like, "Whew." I keep it together though.

Jessica Dang:

And your kids, remind me of your kids' age. Because they're now kind of old
enough that they can fend for themselves too. You've gotten to the point,
you've taught them enough that they are not going to starve when you leave
them.

Laura Fuentes:

Yeah, my daughter, I'm like, "Listen." So here is a good thing. So I'll go back to a
tip. Here's something you can implement. We got rid of our toaster a long time
ago and got a toaster oven. Because right when our daughter was seven or
eight, she could make quesadillas, or ... And honestly, a lot of nights when I was
traveling, she'd be in charge of like, "Oh, you want a turkey quesadilla? Or you
want a ham quesadilla?" Let's face it. It was an open tortilla with cheese and
ham or whatever. But she felt proud that she got to make that for her and her
brothers, right? So I was like, "Go for it."

Laura Fuentes:

So in a lot of ways, empowering our kids to make those decisions of not a
perfect meal. Honestly, who cares? You know? And now she's more
adventurous. And she can follow recipes. But when you're in your trenches, and
your kids are two and five, I know it's rough. And you feel like it's like sink or
swim every freaking day. So if you're listening and that's you, it really does get
better as they get older. But I do feel like it's so important at that age to set the
example of, "We're going to be flexible, and things aren't always going to be
perfect." And I tell my kids all the time, what's most important is that you're
healthy, and that you're happy. Everything else can figure itself out.

Jessica Dang:

Yeah, and I love what you just mentioned with your son and also your daughter.
You've put the responsibility on them too. They're not grown ups yet. But they
are capable of lots of things, and just giving them that chance to understand
that, by being away, or by giving them some responsibility to make their own
dinner, or figure out what to do about their dirty underwear situation. And also,
for your husband too, I sometimes think about like, "Oh, he might not view it as
an opportunity, but it's an opportunity for him to learn and also see this is all
the stuff I have to do when no one's looking."

Laura Fuentes:

Now, and he may not do the things the way I do them. But you know what? I'll
let that stuff go too. I'm like, "Hey, they get done." Honestly, he may not fold my


underwear if he does laundry. But, heck, the laundry got done. He is like, "I
don't know how to fold these things." And I'm like, "It's a thong. You just fold
like three ways. It's not a big deal."
Jessica Dang:

You don't even need to fold that. It's fine. Just throw it in the drawer.

Laura Fuentes:

It's more like, "Who cares? But I got clean underwear." So do you know what I'm
saying? Like is too short to be grumpy and I gave up ... I mean, maybe I've had
way too much therapy because of my kids' eating. But I let all of that go. And it
just made me so much happier to let go of that perfection. And, "Does he load
the dishwasher this way?" Well, heck, I don't care. The stuff got put in, and it's
clean. It got put away, at least.

Laura Fuentes:

So anyway, delegating is huge. And then, of course, if I tell my kids to like,
they've been emptying the dishwasher for a long time. Not willingly, but I do ask
them. And they kind of like, groan. I'm like, "Oh, what? Oh, you want to eat with
a clean fork? Oh, that's awesome. It needs to be put away." The thing is, is that
after they do it, and I say, "Thank you so much for emptying the dishwasher for
me. It really helps me out when you do that." So they're like, "Oh." Right?

Laura Fuentes:

So I might have nagged them for like 10 minutes to get up and go do that one
thing. But then I need to reinforce that thing that they did was helpful to me,
and therefore they feel that slight bit of ping or, "Ooh. Okay." So then it
reinforces a behavior that I want them to do more willingly down the road, or
something that honestly, they should be doing. Because we don't have to do
everything for everyone in our house.

Jessica Dang:

Oh, I think that more moms need to hear that more often and really integrate
that, and actually put it into practice. Because I think that's so hard. I think we
all know that we do not need to do everything. My new saying is, "Yeah, moms
can't have it all, but we have to do it all." That shouldn't be true either. We
should learn to not have to do it all.

Laura Fuentes:

No, we really don't. There's a house with a roof with four walls. And there are
other human beings that live in it. And my responsibility is to make sure that
they're happy, and healthy, and everything else is like, it takes a team. It's like
running a company. It takes a team to execute and do the things that we do. So
does a house. Honestly, I don't want the pressure of making sure everything is
done all the time, and perfect. Forget it. You know, "You were complaining you
have no clean underwear? Well, you should have told me when you had none
left in your drawer. I got enough. So I wasn't looking out for your drawer."

Jessica Dang:

What? You're not going through everybody's underwear drawer every day to
make sure that they have clean underwear?

Laura Fuentes:

No, that's not my problem. You're eight. Hello? You know? Or, "Oh, wait.
There's no more of the snacks that you like? Well then maybe you should've

told me about it so I could've added it to the list." A lot of us moms, I'm sure you
have a lot of people listening that are, they work. Like, you wouldn't treat the
people in your office and do everything for them. Because they have a job to do
too, right? They have responsibilities. At my house, you've got a job to do too
because I have a ton of jobs.
Jessica Dang:

Also it's helpful to your child, right? My biggest lesson from parenting so far, and
I have two and a four year old, and this baby that doesn't do a whole lot yet. But
it's like kids can do a lot more than you think they can. They are really capable.
And the age that mine are, they don't really complain too much about when
you're asking them to do stuff because they think it's fun. It's like adult stuff that
they get to do.

Laura Fuentes:

Totally, so at two, for example. I'm going to give you an example, laundry. Can a
two year old really help with laundry? Well, I used to take this wet stuff, if you
don't have a front loader, like I didn't have a front loader. So I would take the
wet stuff out of the washer, and put it back in the laundry basket on the floor
next to my two year old, and make him stand. And I would say, "Okay, you need
to throw this stuff. It's a throwing game. You need to throw this stuff in the
dryer." While they were doing that, I was probably folding the stuff that had
been sitting in the dryer for too long, on top of the washer. And I just, when
they're five, I'm like, "Hey, can you go ..." They're learning how to match the
socks and all this stuff. They don't always do it willingly. But, I mean, I'm doing it.
So you're going to do it with me.

Laura Fuentes:

So at two, like you said, there's a lot of things. We're making them match. We
spend so money on games, on all these educational resources, you know?
Teaches our kids to match shapes and do this. I'm like, "Heck, all you got to do is
empty the dishwasher and put the silverware in the drawer. That's matching
shapes, you know?

Jessica Dang:

Oh, yes. They love that game at my house.

Laura Fuentes:

Right. You don't have to give them glass. You know? So anyway, there's a lot of
age appropriate things that you can do, that I call delegate. But I tell them it's
part of their job. I mean, if you're listening, I really do a lot of other things in the
house I don't tell my kids to do everything. I mean, I need to prepare my kids for
when they're older and they are adult humans.

Jessica Dang:

Yeah, that's the biggest job as a parent, is to teach your kids how to be adults.
And that includes meal planning and figuring out how to cook a dinner because
that's part of being an adult, is feeding yourself, and hopefully feeding yourself
in a healthy way.

Laura Fuentes:

If they can read, they can read a recipe. They don't have to cook it. But we used
to print out our recipes, which yours print out as well. And they can tell you
what's the next step. And they're seven, they have to do reading. They can

practice reading. They can learn about fractions by measuring stuff. Yes, they
make a little bit of a mess, and they're not as neat as we are. But you're going to
be cleaning up anyway. So what's a little bit more mess. You know?
Jessica Dang:

Yes. Totally. Yeah. All that stuff, the mess, things taking a little bit longer than
you would take to do it, those are just all investments in the future that they will
learn to do at an earlier age. And hopefully, that'll be their task and not yours in
the future.

Laura Fuentes:

Right, it totally takes a lot longer for my 13 year old to empty the dishwasher
than it takes me. But you know what? Someone else is doing it. So I really don't
care. I mean, it's not my time. It's her time. It's a different approach to things
that thanks to a lot of years of feeding therapy, and I was like, "Oh, wow. I don't
have to do everything." But honestly, with that mentality is how I approach a lot
of what we do in our Picky Eaters programs and our Kick Start, which is
eliminating processed foods and sugars. It's kind of like Whole30, but for
families. You know, we want to make so many changes in our lives. And we
don't know how to do it because we can control ourselves, but we don't know
how to implement it with our kids. And so a lot of what I focus over the last
seven years is building our programs that really empower you as a parent to
make the changes that you want to see happen at home.

Jessica Dang:

I love that. So just remind people where can they find these programs?

Laura Fuentes:

You can find everything and anything on Momables.com. On the header, you'll
see like you have Picky Eaters. Basically, tell me what you're struggling with, and
then we can help you.

Jessica Dang:

Okay. Well, you mentioned that you are in the middle of a move. So thank you
for joining us even though I think things are clearly very chaotic in your life right
now. But this is part of a decision that your family has made to downsize your
house. We could all spend more time and money on family experiences and
travel. So congratulations. That's so exciting.

Laura Fuentes:

Thank you.

Jessica Dang:

And I just love that you're making life work on your family's terms. You know,
your priorities, your values, and it's definitely made me think more about what I
want for my kids as they get older. I mean, it's just like by simplifying your life,
you guys simplified your meal planning, and you've made it actually much more
rich. That's so great.

Laura Fuentes:

Right.

Jessica Dang:

Perfect. Okay, so Laura, it's been so awesome talking to you today. And I want
to give you our rapid fire round of questions.

Laura Fuentes:

Okay.

Jessica Dang:

And so we can end with that. Okay, you ready?

Laura Fuentes:

Yes.

Jessica Dang:

Okay, your most important kitchen tool?

Laura Fuentes:

My blender, my Blendtec. It does everything ... I can consolidate a lot of
appliances, and you and I are probably appliance junkies. But a really great
blender. It will do everything you need it to do, most part.

Jessica Dang:

All right. I have to hear more about that offline because I actually don't have a
blender.

Laura Fuentes:

But you have a food processor, and you have a mixer, and you have all these
things that your blender could do.

Jessica Dang:

Oh. Okay, I got to hear more about this then. Okay, your go-to breakfast?

Laura Fuentes:

For me, for years, it's been Bulletproof pot coffee because I intermittent fast.
And I have a whole blog post on LauraFuentes.com on the benefits of
Bulletproof coffee for women, or fat coffee. It doesn't have to be the brand
Bulletproof. So I'm a big promoter of, I think five years, six years, now.
Otherwise, eggs.

Jessica Dang:

Okay. Yes, I'm an egg girl. I don't drink coffee, but I've been hearing more about
Bulletproof coffee so now I'm kind of curious.

Laura Fuentes:

And you can blend tea. So you can make fat tea as well.

Jessica Dang:

Oh, I like the fat aspect of it. So I'll have to give it a try. Hey, you have 15
minutes to make a meal. What is it?

Laura Fuentes:

For my family, if it's 15 minutes, breakfast for dinner or tacos, for sure. For
myself, it's a five minute, it's like a big salad bowl.

Jessica Dang:

I'm there with you on that. What is one meal you never get sick of?

Laura Fuentes:

Poke bowls, thanks to your recipe.

Jessica Dang:

Mmmm. Thank you. Yes, I love a good poke bowl. One ingredient you always
have in your pantry?

Laura Fuentes:

White rice.

Jessica Dang:

Oh, yes. As a Chinese person that is also something we always have in our
pantry too.

Laura Fuentes:

Also five minute cook rice, or quick rice?

Jessica Dang:

Oh, yeah. That's a good shortcut that people should have.

Laura Fuentes:

Yes.

Jessica Dang:

Great. I think that some people think, "Oh, since you're a food person, you do
everything from scratch." It's like, "No, no, no." The reason we are able to
execute homemade dinners every night is because we understand what
shortcuts we need.

Laura Fuentes:

Totally, like rotisserie chickens. But anyway, move on.

Jessica Dang:

Yeah. Guilty pleasure, food or not.

Laura Fuentes:

Food, butter. Life, blow outs. I go to my hair salon once a week.

Jessica Dang:

Good. I wanted to clarify you're talking about hair blowouts. Because I have a
baby right now and I'm like, "Oh, blowouts? What?"

Laura Fuentes:

Not that type of blowout, although I can totally tackle, like a champ. I've been
there.

Jessica Dang:

Oh, yes. I'm hoping to get out of that stage in not too long. Your favorite life
optimization or organization app?

Laura Fuentes:

Shared calendars is a big deal because it's part of communicating. So we have a
kids' cal. We have a master calendar. But then we have kids activity calendars,
which we share with my in-law. I don't subscribe to any service for that. It's just
like my iCal. But like my in-laws, I share my kids' activities and calendars with my
parents, my husband. I'm all about understanding and taking control of my time.
And that involves communicating what's happening with other people in our
life. So shared calendars and Wunderlist. It's a shared to do list. That's an app.

Jessica Dang:

Yes. I use Wunderlist. I love it. I have every list from grocery lists to meal plan
ideas on Wunderlist. It's great.

Laura Fuentes:

All Wunderlist.

Jessica Dang:

Hardest thing you've done?

Laura Fuentes:

The hardest thing I've done, I mean, there's a lot but I think the root of my
personality may come from coming to the United States in my teens from Spain
without speaking English. I think that has to be the hardest thing I've ever done.

Jessica Dang:

Oh, yeah, of course. But you've done such a great job. I mean, you've done so
much with your life.

Laura Fuentes:

Thanks. It's just, honestly, I had a different answer for that for you. But the thing
is, is that I have to think back of what makes me "me" is that mentality of, "I'm
going to try it and see what happens." And it all stems from basically coming to
a new country without speaking the language, and just having to figure it out.
And I have taken that experience through everything else that I do. I don't
always succeed at things, but that really shaped who I am today.

Jessica Dang:

It is. I think that's why so many immigrants are entrepreneurs, because it takes a
lot of that same mentality.

Laura Fuentes:

Yeah, exactly.

Jessica Dang:

Proudest thing you've done?

Laura Fuentes:

Proudest thing. Okay. I know that you're going to relate to this. I don't know if it
may be your proudest moment, but you have this similar experience. In 2014, I
auditioned and I competed on Food Network.

Jessica Dang:

Oh, what show?

Laura Fuentes:

It was called Rewrapped, and it was with Mark Summers. It was a competition
show. And I think it had a few seasons. But the point was, is that I'd never been
in front of a camera in my life. I was still a mom. I had just taught myself how to
cook like three years earlier. And I was really casted as the mom who cooks
against two chefs. And A, I won. And B, I learned that I could just be myself and
cook. I won with like a breakfast type of dish, and they were making all these
intricate things. And I was like, "You know what? It's totally okay to be myself."
On camera, on food network, or in life in general. So I was really proud. Because
since then I learned that I could do it, so then I started doing videos, and then I
made a bigger impact on people's lives because I put on my big girl panties and
went and did it, you know?

Jessica Dang:

Well, you're so good on camera, honestly. So I can't believe you just started a
couple of years ago, and the Food Network was your first time.

Laura Fuentes:

Not if you watched me on Food Network. I wasn't great, I'm telling you, because
I was scared.


Can we find this episode? I want to watch it. I've never heard of this show,
actually.

Laura Fuentes:

I think, I'll send you the link. I definitely have it on Dropbox. I don't know if it's
available out there. It might be. But I do have a blog post on it. It's like a Monte
Cristo. I made waffles, okay? Because you know what? I'm a mom. I can make
breakfast meals like a champ. And I knew that I could execute under pressure
perfect waffles. So it was a Waffle Cristo. It's like a Waffle Monte Cristo.

Jessica Dang:

Oh, I have to find that. Well, anyways, yeah. Know your strengths. So breakfast
for dinner is great. And breakfast on a reality TV competition show, also great, it
turns out.

Laura Fuentes:

Yeah, see. It's all about experience.

Jessica Dang:

Yes, so okay, last book you loved.

Laura Fuentes:

I just reread, just in the last couple of months, which took me a long time to reread, Les Misrables. It was the first book I read that was a really thick book
back when I was learning English. So you have to get a little perspective. It was
like 1200 pages. And I was so proud of myself that I got through an entire book
in English, right? And I loved it for years. And I just read it recently as an adult.
And I was like, "Oh, I really loved this book." And so that would be one of them.
And then another book that I really liked recently was The Giver. It's a book
about approach life with a giving mentality. You know, a lot of things happen for
you. So, anyway, yeah.

Jessica Dang:

Yes, I love that book. The Giver. Lois Lowry. Everyone should check that out. It's
a great kids book. Last TV show you loved.

Laura Fuentes:

Oh my gosh. I'm a serial watcher, so I watch a few at the same time. I really like
the OA on Netflix. The Handmaid's Tale. 30 minutes, like comedies, like Younger.
I think that's on ... I don't know what channel that is. But it's about a 40 year old
woman who goes back into the workforce, and she pretends to be younger to
get a job. And I think I really related with that show because I'm 40, and I, in the
media and all the things that I do, I'm often surrounded by a lot of younger
people. And so I kind of feel like what would it be like if I had to go back to the
real work force and now I'm in my 40s? Right? So that was kind of a quick easy
show, called Younger.

Jessica Dang:

Well, lady, you are, even though you said you are in your 40s, I feel like you're
just getting started. There is so much ahead of you, and I had such a good time
talking to you, and you have such wisdom, and I so appreciate you sharing that
with me and us. So before we sign off, can you tell everyone one more time
where they can continue to follow you on all your adventures and get even
more of your practical real life tips on motherhood, as well as packing lunches?


So if you like to watch video, YouTube is the place to go for cooking videos and
such. YouTube/Momables. You and I were talking about how we manage our
social media. I run my social channels on Instagram. If you want to get to me,
that's the place to go @LauraSFuentes is my personal, and @Momables. You'll
get all the food ones there. Yeah, so LauraFuentez.com or Momables.com for a
lot of the things that we talked about today, from Picky Eating to Whole30 top
family programs. They're all there.

Jessica Dang:

All right. Thank you so much, Laura. Everyone, go follow Laura on Instagram and
check out her website. Anything you have to ask about picky eating or lunches, I
am sure she has answered. So check all the resources she has out.

Laura Fuentes:

Thank you so much.